mcpherson_elbow_room_Elbow_Room	bot10	15.0	The cop looks worshipful. An elderly woman, easing heavy shopping bags to the floor, inquires reverently into the stock of religious materials. But this is only a ploy. Once answers are forthcoming, she confesses her fear that the earth has become peopled by the alien occupants of flying saucers. She looks at the shopgirl imploringly. A student comes looking for esoteric titles. He stands at attention by the counter and rattles them off. Then he lingers there, volunteering, for some reason, unabashed insights into the sources of his frustrations. The girl listens carefully. She listens to all of them. But she smiles in such a secret way that they cannot be sure she has heard. Most people buy books to pay her for her time. I buy books so 226 ELBOW ROOM I can stand at the counter and get a closer inspection of her mystery. This time I am sure her face is the source of all this interest. It is a free face, a fresh face. In it I can see no servitude to the expressions of faces I have seen before. Hers is a smile completely unaware of any predecessor. It derives entirely from within itself. Her mystery, I think, is an awareness of this liberation from the familiar. But not even her smile seems conscious of this.
sarton_joanna_and_ulysses_Joanna_and_Ulysses	bot10	5.0	She was in a sea daze, and the quay seemed to rock slightly as she stood there, bewildered for a moment among the shouts and cries of the donkey drivers already competing for the five or six passengers who had disembarked. She stood there, bewildered, beside her pile of luggage, smiling at the sight of so many donkeys, donkeys of eveiy size, color, each with a different saddle or bright blanket thrown over him, attended by their masters who looked, Joanna thought, like delightful bandits in a child’s story. What made her suddenly notice, far down the quay, another scene, so terrible that at first she turned her eyes away? “I have not come here, all this way, to be wrenched apart again, to be wrenched apart by a donkey,” she 14] thought and the thought was a prayer, “Please let me not see what I see.” But she did see. What she saw was an infinitesimal gray donkey, the most miserable animal one could imagine, for his whole belly was an open wound; and on the back of this misery two gypsies were loading an enormous wine cask. At that second, her daze vanished and she strode past the clamor of reputable donkey-drivers without a glance, her eyes blazing.
shields_the_stone_diaries_The_Stone_Diaries	bot10	129600.0	Love talk, sweetheart talk. The poetiy of rapture. Occasionally Clarentine Flett has read cheap novels - hiding them from her husband who would think them time-wasting - in which people speak to each other in soft ways, but she had never suspected that such pronouncements might be uttered in the houses of ordinary quarry workers in a village such as Tyndall, Manitoba. Nor had she imagined the enrichment of voice or tone that could be brought to these offerings. “Oh, how I love you,” Cuyler Goodwill said to his wife Mercy, crying out to her with a pitch of entreaty which Clarentine Flett has been unable to wipe from her remembrance. It’s been with her all spring, raining down on the dry weave of her daily comings and goings. It’s with her now as she stands beside the clothesline, sneezing and blinking in the brilliant sunshine and fighting a temptation to withdraw for the afternoon. And then an idea comes to her. She would boil up a kettle for tea and invite Mercy to come across and share it. Yes, a nice pot of tea, Clarentine Flett decides. And she’ll take down the best rose tea cups, Royal Albert, that belonged to her mother, and while she’s at it, she’ll set out a plate of jam biscuits.
1400_great_expectations	top10	10.0	“You're as proud of it as Punch; ain't you, Aged?” said Wemmick, contemplating the old man, with his hard face really softened; “there's a nod for you;” giving him a tremendous one; “there's another for you;” giving him a still more tremendous one; “you like that, don't you? If you're not tired, Mr. Pip--though I know it's tiring to strangers--will you tip him one more? You can't think how it pleases him.” I tipped him several more, and he was in great spirits. We left him bestirring himself to feed the fowls, and we sat down to our punch in the arbor; where Wemmick told me, as he smoked a pipe, that it had taken him a good many years to bring the property up to its present pitch of perfection. “Is it your own, Mr. Wemmick?” “O yes,” said Wemmick, “I have got hold of it, a bit at a time. It's a freehold, by George!” “Is it indeed? I hope Mr. Jaggers admires it?” “Never seen it,” said Wemmick. “Never heard of it. Never seen the Aged. Never heard of him.
gibson_neuromancer_Neuromancer	top10	1.0	Mostly for you. And one certified psychopath name of Peter Riviera. Real ugly customer.” “Where’s he?” “Dunno. But he’s one sick fuck, no lie. I saw his profile.” She made a face. “Godawful.” She stood up and stretched, catlike. “So we got an axis going, boy? We’re together in this? Partners?” Case looked at her. “I gotta lotta choice, huh?” She laughed. “You got it, cowboy.” “The matrix has its roots in primitive arcade games,” said the voice-over, “in early graphics programs and military experimentation with cranial jacks.” On the Sony, a two-dimensional space war faded behind a forest of mathematically generated ferns, demonstrating the spacial possibilities of logarithmic spirals; cold blue military footage burned through, lab animals wired into test systems, helmets feeding into fire control circuits of tanks and war planes. “Cyberspace. A consensual hallucination experienced daily by billions of legitimate operators, in every nation, by children being taught mathematical concepts... A graphic representation of data abstracted from the banks of every computer in the human system. Unthinkable complexity. Lines of light ranged in the nonspace of the mind, clusters and constellations of data.
345_dracula	top10	360.0	* * * * * _30 September._--The station-master was good enough to give me a line to his old companion the station-master at King's Cross, so that when I arrived there in the morning I was able to ask him about the arrival of the boxes. He, too, put me at once in communication with the proper officials, and I saw that their tally was correct with the original invoice. The opportunities of acquiring an abnormal thirst had been here limited; a noble use of them had, however, been made, and again I was compelled to deal with the result in an _ex post facto_ manner. From thence I went on to Carter Paterson's central office, where I met with the utmost courtesy. They looked up the transaction in their day-book and letter-book, and at once telephoned to their King's Cross office for more details. By good fortune, the men who did the teaming were waiting for work, and the official at once sent them over, sending also by one of them the way-bill and all the papers connected with the delivery of the boxes at Carfax. Here again I found the tally agreeing exactly; the carriers' men were able to supplement the paucity of the written words with a few details.
moyes_me_before_you_Me_Before_You	bot10	30.0	That's great. Dad. Really. I stepped forward and gave him a hug. "Well, it's really Will you should thank. What a smashing bloke. I'm just bloody grateful that he thought of me." I listened to them leave the house, the sound of Mum fussing in the hall mirror. Dad's repeated reassurances that she looked lovely, that she was just fine as she was. I heard him patting his pockets for keys, wallet, loose change, followed by a brief burst of laughter. The door slammed. I heard the hum of the car pulling away, and then there was just the distant sound of the television in Granddad's room. I sat on the stairs. And then I pulled out my phone and rang Will's number. It took him a while to answer. I pictured him heading to the hands-free device, depressing the button with his thumb. "Hello?" "Is this your doing?" There was a brief pause. "Is that you, Clark?" "Did you get my dad a job?" He sounded a little breathless. I wondered, absently, whether he was sitting up okay. "I thought you'd be pleased." "I am pleased. It's just...
devi_imaginary_maps_Imaginary_Maps	bot10	105120000.0	If it had been a bit closer the villagers might have started living in the abandoned brick built house. For people who live in villages like Kuruda, life holds few breaks other than annual festivals. So their eyes are charmed by the scenes on top of Kuruda Hill. When Mary Oraon comes up, she looks at the train, as the passengers look at her if they see her. Eighteen years old, tall, flat-featured, light copper skin. Usually she wears a print sari. At a distance she looks most seductive, but close up you see a strong message of rejection in her glance. You wouldn’t call her a tribal at first sight. Yet she is a tribal. Once upon a time whites had timber plantations in Kuruda. They left gradually after Independence. Mary’s mother looked after the Dixons’ bungalow and household. Dixon’s son came back in 1959 and sold the house, the forest, everything else. He put Mary in Bhikni’s womb before he left. He went to Australia. The padre at the local church christened her Mary. Bhikni was still a Christian. But when Prasadji from Ranchi came to live in the Dixon bungalow and refused to employ Bhikni, she gave up Christianity. Mary pastures the Prasads’ cattle. She is a most capable cowherd.
desai_the_clear_light_of_day_Clear_Light_of_Day	bot10	1.0	Raja always admired Hyder Ali Sahib - probably envied him cutting such a fine figure on the white horse, a servant running ahead of him to clear the way of rabble like us and a dog to bring up the rear. Impressive, I suppose - and wasn’t Raja impressed! See, this late in life, he’s still trying to be Hyder Ali Sahib,’ she laughed. ‘Hyder Ali Sahib was his ideal in life and it’s the ideal he’s still pursuing, poor Raja. To gratify his own boyhood desire, he now forces his poor little boy to ride. Terrible, isn’t it, how parents drive their children to fulfil their own ungratified desires?’ Her face shone with vindication as if it were oily. Tara drew back, affronted. ‘I don’t think little Riyaz is at all aware of his father’s ungratified desires,’ she said, primly. ‘No, but he will be. When that pony throws him and he howls and no longer wants to ride and his father insists he get back on, then he will know what it’s all for.’ ‘Why do you foresee such terrible things?’ Tara protested, wincing, her maternal instinct touched as if with a knife-point. ‘The pony won’t throw little Riyaz.
richter_the_town_The_Town	bot10	360.0	Like a hammer knocking off pieces of rock with each word, he gave his opinion of Harley Fry and other well-to-do men who pushed him for money and still worse, those who owed him and wouldn’t pay. He hadn’t a dollar, he claimed, but if Chancey sat down and wrote him out an order on Minor Jones, the jobber, he’d sign it. Chancey never did get his supper that night. Minor Jones wasn’t at home when he got there and the boy had to wait a long time. When he did come, he said he had been down town for Saturday night and had spent what cash he had in his pocket. The banks were closed. It was late. He would have to give him an order on Tom Brill, the grocer. If Chancey hurried, he could still get his money from him. The boy left as soon as he was able, but it was ten o’clock and Brill was putting the heavy wooden shutters on his store windows when the boy got there. The grocer stood reading the order, his dour lips moving. “It’s too late to send me to anybody else tonight 1” Chancey begged to forestall him. “Well,” the storekeeper said shrewdly, “sign it ‘Received in full’
11_alices_adventures_in_wonderland	top10	1.0	At this moment the door of the house opened, and a large plate came skimming out, straight at the Footman’s head: it just grazed his nose, and broke to pieces against one of the trees behind him. ‘--or next day, maybe,’ the Footman continued in the same tone, exactly as if nothing had happened. ‘How am I to get in?’ asked Alice again, in a louder tone. ‘ARE you to get in at all?’ said the Footman. ‘That’s the first question, you know.’ It was, no doubt: only Alice did not like to be told so. ‘It’s really dreadful,’ she muttered to herself, ‘the way all the creatures argue. It’s enough to drive one crazy!’ The Footman seemed to think this a good opportunity for repeating his remark, with variations. ‘I shall sit here,’ he said, ‘on and off, for days and days.’ ‘But what am I to do?’ said Alice. ‘Anything you like,’ said the Footman, and began whistling. ‘Oh, there’s no use in talking to him,’ said Alice desperately: ‘he’s perfectly idiotic!’ And she opened the door and went in.
113_the_secret_garden	top10	1.0	Not tha', he said. "Nowt o' th' sort. What's tha' been doin' with thysel'--hidin' out o' sight an' lettin' folk think tha' was cripple an' half-witted?" "Half-witted!" said Colin angrily. "Who thought that?" "Lots o' fools," said Ben. "Th' world's full o' jackasses brayin' an' they never bray nowt but lies. What did tha' shut thysel' up for?" "Everyone thought I was going to die," said Colin shortly. "I'm not!" And he said it with such decision Ben Weatherstaff looked him over, up and down, down and up. "Tha' die!" he said with dry exultation. "Nowt o' th' sort! Tha's got too much pluck in thee. When I seed thee put tha' legs on th' ground in such a hurry I knowed tha' was all right. Sit thee down on th' rug a bit young Mester an' give me thy orders." There was a queer mixture of crabbed tenderness and shrewd understanding in his manner. Mary had poured out speech as rapidly as she could as they had come down the Long Walk.
smiley_a_thousand_acres_A_Thousand_Acres	bot10	2628000.0	I took down the curtains, the way I did every fall, though usually after harvest, and washed and bleached and ironed them. I was so remarkably comfortable with the discipline of making a good appearance! It was like going back to school or church after a long absence. It had ritual and measure. Tasks proliferated. Once you made a good appearance your goal, you could confidently do things like nest all the spoons and forks in the newly washed and dried silverware tray and face them in the same direction. You could spend an hour or two vacuuming the tops of the floor moldings in the house with an attachment you’d never used before, then go back over what you’d done with a sponge dampened in ammonia, then again with furniture polish. There was cleaning you could do in the bathroom with an old toothbrush that might have repelled you before. There were comers and angles and seams all over the house that could be gotten at The outside of the house itself could be scrubbed from a ladder, with the hose and a brush. The outside second-story windows could be washed. The grass could be edged and trimmed and raked and rolled for the great open invisible eye of The Neighbors to judge and enjoy. Cars, and trucks, of course, could be washed every day.
2852_the_hound_of_the_baskervilles	top10	2880.0	“In that case the waiter must have placed it there while we were lunching.” The German was sent for but professed to know nothing of the matter, nor could any inquiry clear it up. Another item had been added to that constant and apparently purposeless series of small mysteries which had succeeded each other so rapidly. Setting aside the whole grim story of Sir Charles’s death, we had a line of inexplicable incidents all within the limits of two days, which included the receipt of the printed letter, the black-bearded spy in the hansom, the loss of the new brown boot, the loss of the old black boot, and now the return of the new brown boot. Holmes sat in silence in the cab as we drove back to Baker Street, and I knew from his drawn brows and keen face that his mind, like my own, was busy in endeavouring to frame some scheme into which all these strange and apparently disconnected episodes could be fitted. All afternoon and late into the evening he sat lost in tobacco and thought. Just before dinner two telegrams were handed in. The first ran: Have just heard that Barrymore is at the Hall. BASKERVILLE. The second: Visited twenty-three hotels as directed, but sorry, to report unable to trace cut sheet of Times.
herbert_dune_Dune	top10	3.0	And he thought: Why do I stand here torturing myself? And torturing this poor lad... though he does not know it. Oeyh! Damn those Har-konnen beasts! Why did they choose me for their abomination? How do we approach the study of Muad'Dib's father? A man of surpassing warmth and surprising coldness was the Duke Leto Atreides. Yet, many facts open the way to this Duke: his abiding love for his Bene Gesserit lady; the dreams he held for his son; the devotion with which men served him. You see him there—a man snared by Destiny, a lonely figure with his light dimmed behind the glory of his son. Still, one must ask: What is the son but an extension of the father? — FROM "MUAD'DIB, FAMILY COMMENTARIES" BY THE PRINCESS IRULAN Paul watched his father enter the training room, saw the guards take up stations outside. One of them closed the door. As always, Paul experienced a sense of presence in his father, someone totally here. The Duke was tall, olive-skinned. His thin face held harsh angles warmed only by deep gray eyes. He wore a black working uniform with red armorial hawk crest at the breast. A silvered shield belt with the patina of much use girded his narrow waist.
1260_jane_eyre_an_autobiography	top10	2.0	Mrs. Fairfax! I called out: for I now heard her descending the great stairs. "Did you hear that loud laugh? Who is it?" "Some of the servants, very likely," she answered: "perhaps Grace Poole." "Did you hear it?" I again inquired. "Yes, plainly: I often hear her: she sews in one of these rooms. Sometimes Leah is with her; they are frequently noisy together." The laugh was repeated in its low, syllabic tone, and terminated in an odd murmur. "Grace!" exclaimed Mrs. Fairfax. I really did not expect any Grace to answer; for the laugh was as tragic, as preternatural a laugh as any I ever heard; and, but that it was high noon, and that no circumstance of ghostliness accompanied the curious cachinnation; but that neither scene nor season favoured fear, I should have been superstitiously afraid. However, the event showed me I was a fool for entertaining a sense even of surprise. The door nearest me opened, and a servant came out,--a woman of between thirty and forty; a set, square-made figure, red-haired, and with a hard, plain face: any apparition less romantic or less ghostly could scarcely be conceived.
barrett_servants_of_the_map_Servants_of_the_Map:_Stories	bot10	2628000.0	8 Before Elizabeth had a house of her own, before Dr. Kopeckny arrived and changed the way they thought, Nora and her friends had their own ideas about the nature of consumption. Bessie had heard it was caused by perverted humors and hidden inflammations; Olive, that it ran in families and affected only those of a melancholy nature. Jane and Lillian had been taught by their mother that it rose directly from damp, cold air trapped inside a room crowded with people: a miasma, open the windows against a miasma. Their cousin thought, more straightforwardly, that dirt meant rot meant smells meant sickness: everything must be clean! Nora herself, as a girl in Ireland, had been told by her grand- mother that consumption arose from putrid phlegm, draining into the chest from the head. If you lit a dried cow patty and let it smoke, and then inhaled the smoke through a reed, you’d be cured. Or if you ate the cooked and powdered lungs of a fox, or the blood of a goat. The forequarter of a dog that had drowned, claimed one of her grandmother’s friends, would if boiled and made into a stew cure the sickest patient. One of Ned’s guests, a Dr. Fuller from Baltimore, ridiculed everyone’s theories but his own.
77_the_house_of_the_seven_gables	top10	10.0	Amid the disorder of such various ruin, it is not strange that a man of inconsiderable note, like Maule, should have trodden the martyr's path to the hill of execution almost unremarked in the throng of his fellow sufferers. But, in after days, when the frenzy of that hideous epoch had subsided, it was remembered how loudly Colonel Pyncheon had joined in the general cry, to purge the land from witchcraft; nor did it fail to be whispered, that there was an invidious acrimony in the zeal with which he had sought the condemnation of Matthew Maule. It was well known that the victim had recognized the bitterness of personal enmity in his persecutor's conduct towards him, and that he declared himself hunted to death for his spoil. At the moment of execution--with the halter about his neck, and while Colonel Pyncheon sat on horseback, grimly gazing at the scene Maule had addressed him from the scaffold, and uttered a prophecy, of which history, as well as fireside tradition, has preserved the very words. "God," said the dying man, pointing his finger, with a ghastly look, at the undismayed countenance of his enemy,--"God will give him blood to drink!" After the reputed wizard's death, his humble homestead had fallen an easy spoil into Colonel Pyncheon's grasp.
adams_the_hitchhikers_guide_to_the_galaxy_The_Hitchhiker_s_Guide_to_the_Galaxy	top10	2.0	“Will you open up the exit hatch, please, computer?” said Zaphod, trying not to get angry. “Not until whoever said that owns up,” urged the computer, stamping a few synapses closed. “Oh God,” muttered Ford, slumped against a bulkhead. He started to count to ten. He was desperately 137 worried that one day sentient life forms would forget how to do this. Only by counting could humans demonstrate their independence of computers. “Come on,” said Eddie sternly. “Computer ...” began Zaphod. “I’m waiting,” interrupted Eddie. “I can wait all day if necessary....” “Computer ...” said Zaphod again, who had been trying to think of some subtle piece of reasoning to put the computer down with, and had decided not to bother competing with it on its own ground, “if you don’t open that exit hatch this moment I shall zap straight off to your major data banks and reprogram you with a very large ax, got that?” Eddie, shocked, paused and considered this. Ford carried on counting quietly. This is about the most aggressive thing you can do to a computer, the equivalent of going up to a human being and saying Blood ... blood ... blood .. . blood ...
porter_the_collected_stories_of_katherine_anne_porter_The_Collected_Stories_of_Katherine_Anne_Porter	bot10	720.0	not worth all this abominable ... the end . . .” Carefully she tore the letter into narrow strips and touched a lighted match to them in the coal grate. Early the next morning she was in the bathtub when the jani-tress knocked and then came in, calling out that she wished to examine the radiators before she started the furnace going for the winter. After moving about the room for a few minutes, the jani-tress went out, closing the door very sharply. She came out of the bathroom to get a cigarette from the package in the purse. The purse was gone. She dressed and made coffee, and sat by the window while she drank it. Certainly the janitress had taken the purse, and certainly it would be impossible to get it back without a great deal of ridiculous excitement. Then let it go. With this decision of her mind, there rose coincidentally in her blood a deep almost murderous anger. She set the cup carefully in the center of the table, and walked steadily downstairs, three long flights and a short hall and a steep short flight into the basement, where the janitress, her face streaked with coal dust, was shaking up the furnace. “Will you please give me back my purse? There isn’t any money in it.
brown_the_da_vinci_code_The_Da_Vinci_Code	top10	5.0	Whatever could this be? “Sophie?” her grandfather spoke from the doorway. Startled, she spun, dropping the key on the floor with a loud clang. She stared down at the key, afraid to look up at her grandfather’s face. “I . . . was looking for my birthday present,” she said, hanging her head, knowing she had betrayed his trust. For what seemed like an eternity, her grandfather stood silently in the doorway. Finally, he let out a long troubled breath. “Pick up the key, Sophie.” Sophie retrieved the key. Her grandfather walked in. “Sophie, you need to respect other people’s privacy.” Gently, he knelt down and took the key from her. “This key is very special. If you had lost it. . Her grandfather’s quiet voice made Sophie feel even worse. “I’m sorry, Grand-pere. I really am.” She paused. “I thought it was a necklace for my birthday.” He gazed at her for several seconds. "I’ll say this once more, Sophie, because it’s important. You need to learn to respect other people’s privacy.” “Yes, Grand-pere.’’ “We’ll talk about this some other time.
melamud_the_fixer_The_Fixer	bot10	720.0	He felt listless, despondent. Zhitnyak watched him through the hole, peeking in from the side. The diarrhea occurred more frequently, and after it Yakov lay, enervated and panting, on the mattress. Though he was very weak he kept up the fire in the stove all day and Zhitnyak did not say no. The fixer still felt cold and nothing seemed to warm him. The one good thing was that there were now no searches. He asked again to be sent to the infirmary but when the Deputy Warden came into the cell, he said, “Eat your food and cut out malingering. Starving is what makes you sick.” Yakov forced himself to eat and after a few spoonfuls it was not too bad. Later he vomited. He vomited repeatedly although there was nothing left in his stomach. And at night he had terrible dreams, visions of mass slaughter that left him sleepless, moaning. When he dozed again people were being cut down by Cossacks with sabers. Yakov was shot running into the woods. Yakov, hiding under a table in his hut, was dragged forth and beheaded. Yakov, fleeing along a rutted road, had lost an arm, an eye, his bloody balls; Raisl, lying on the sanded floor, had been raped beyond caring, her fruitless guts were eviscerated.
215_the_call_of_the_wild	top10	129600.0	“That settles it,” he announced. “We camp right here.” And camp they did, till Buck's ribs knitted and he was able to travel. That winter, at Dawson, Buck performed another exploit, not so heroic, perhaps, but one that put his name many notches higher on the totem-pole of Alaskan fame. This exploit was particularly gratifying to the three men; for they stood in need of the outfit which it furnished, and were enabled to make a long-desired trip into the virgin East, where miners had not yet appeared. It was brought about by a conversation in the Eldorado Saloon, in which men waxed boastful of their favorite dogs. Buck, because of his record, was the target for these men, and Thornton was driven stoutly to defend him. At the end of half an hour one man stated that his dog could start a sled with five hundred pounds and walk off with it; a second bragged six hundred for his dog; and a third, seven hundred. “Pooh! pooh!” said John Thornton; “Buck can start a thousand pounds.” “And break it out? and walk off with it for a hundred yards?” demanded Matthewson, a Bonanza King, he of the seven hundred vaunt.
766_david_copperfield	top10	10.0	I said to Annie, when Doctor Strong paid a very flattering visit to myself, and made her the subject of a declaration and an offer, I said, “My dear, there is no doubt whatever, in my opinion, with reference to a suitable provision for you, that Doctor Strong will do more than he binds himself to do.”’ Here the bell rang, and we heard the sound of the visitors’ feet as they went out. ‘It’s all over, no doubt,’ said the Old Soldier, after listening; ‘the dear creature has signed, sealed, and delivered, and his mind’s at rest. Well it may be! What a mind! Annie, my love, I am going to the Study with my paper, for I am a poor creature without news. Miss Trotwood, David, pray come and see the Doctor.’ I was conscious of Mr. Dick’s standing in the shadow of the room, shutting up his knife, when we accompanied her to the Study; and of my aunt’s rubbing her nose violently, by the way, as a mild vent for her intolerance of our military friend; but who got first into the Study, or how Mrs. Markleham settled herself in a moment in her easy-chair, or how my aunt
1342_pride_and_prejudice	top10	1.0	“You forget that I have made no answer. Let me do it without further loss of time. Accept my thanks for the compliment you are paying me. I am very sensible of the honour of your proposals, but it is impossible for me to do otherwise than to decline them.” “I am not now to learn,” replied Mr. Collins, with a formal wave of the hand, “that it is usual with young ladies to reject the addresses of the man whom they secretly mean to accept, when he first applies for their favour; and that sometimes the refusal is repeated a second, or even a third time. I am therefore by no means discouraged by what you have just said, and shall hope to lead you to the altar ere long.” “Upon my word, sir,” cried Elizabeth, “your hope is a rather extraordinary one after my declaration. I do assure you that I am not one of those young ladies (if such young ladies there are) who are so daring as to risk their happiness on the chance of being asked a second time. I am perfectly serious in my refusal. You could not make _me_ happy, and I am convinced that I am the last woman in the world who could make you so.
malouf_the_great_world_The_Great_World	bot10	5.0	He was perfect except for his teeth. She could have whipped him up in her arms and half squeezed the breath out of him. But little kids scare easily, she knew that from experience. She didn’t want to put him off. At last she got round him with a lolly. She offered it and he looked sideways at Vic, who was busy talking, to see if he should accept, and when Vic nodded, put his hand out, undid the wrapper and popped it into his mouth. Then looked in dismay at his sticky hands. He was a very neat little fellow. She took the wrapper from him and ran off into the house to get a flannel, but when she got back he was licking his fingers like a cat. What amazed her was the pinkness of his tongue. She laughed, just to see it, and squeezing up to him on the bench, said, ‘Hey, what’s your best colour? Mine’s yellow. What’s your best cartoon?’ He looked at her then, a little crease appeared on his brow, and he shifted on the seat, closer to his father. She’d lost him. So all the years he’d been coming it was something different, the present he brought, and he was different too.
orwell_1984_1984	top10	5.0	He shut his eyes again. “How many fingers am I holding up, Winston?” “I don’t know. I don’t know. You will kill me if you do that again. Four, five, six—in all honesty I don’t know.” “Better,” said O’Brien. A needle slid into Winston’s arm. Almost in the same instant a blissful, healing warmth spread all through his body. The pain was already half-forgotten. He opened his eyes and looked up gratefully at O’Brien. At sight of the heavy, lined face, so ugly and so intelligent, his heart seemed to turn over. If he could have moved he would have stretched out a hand and laid it on O’Brien’s arm. He had never loved him so deeply as at this moment, and not merely because he had stopped the pain. The old feeling, that at bottom it did not matter whether O’Brien was a friend or an enemy, had come back. O’Brien was a person who could be talked to. Perhaps one did not want to be loved so much as to be understood. O’Brien had tortured him to the edge of lunacy, and in a little while, it was certain, he would send him to his death. It made no difference.
golding_lord_of_the_flies_Lord_of_the_Flies	top10	2.0	I got a right to speak.” The twins giggled together. “We wanted smoke—” “Now look—!” A pall stretched for miles away from the island. All the boys except Piggy started to giggle; presently they were shrieking with laughter. Piggy lost his temper. “I got the conch! Just you listen! The first thing we ought to have made was shelters down there by the beach. It wasn’t half cold down there in the night. But the first time Ralph says ‘fire’ you goes howling and screaming up this here mountain. Like a pack of kids!” By now they were listening to the tirade. “How can you expect to be rescued if you don’t put first things first and act proper?” He took off his glasses and made as if to put down the conch; but the sudden motion toward it of most of the older boys changed his mind. He tucked the shell under his arm, and crouched back on a rock. “Then when you get here you build a bonfire that isn’t no use. Now you been and set the whole island on fire. Won’t we look funny if the whole island burns up? Cooked fruit, that’s what we’ll have to eat, and roast pork.
tolkien_silmarillion_The_Silmarillion	top10	52560000.0	In all that time there were but affrays on the marches, and all Beleriand prospered and grew rich. Behind the guard of their armies in the north the Noldor built their dwellings and their towers, and many fair things they made in those days, and poems and histories and books of lore. In many parts of the land the Noldor and the Sindar became welded into one people, and spoke the same tongue; though this difference remained between them, that the Noldor had the greater power of mind and body, and were the mightier warriors and sages, and they built with stone, and loved the hill-slopes and open lands. But the Sindar had the fairer voices and 138 were more skilled in music, save only Maglor son of Feanor, and they loved the woods and the riversides; and some of the Grey-elves still wandered far and wide without settled abode, and they sang as they went. Chapter 14 Of Beleriand and Its Realms This is the fashion of the lands into which the Noldor came, in the north of the western regions of Middle-earth, in the ancient days; and here also is told of the manner in which the chieftains of the Eldar held their lands and the leaguer upon Morgoth after the Dagor Aglareb, the third battle in the Wars of Beleriand.
barclay_melal_Melal:_A_Novel_of_the_Pacific	bot10	14400.0	The drinking water turned yellow. It tasted bitter. So did the fish caught that day, having been powdered while in water at the bottom of the canoes. By that night people began to vomit. Their skin and their eyes and their mouths became inflamed, burning hot. Iia, who had stayed inside and was already feeling sick enough not to want to eat, did not suffer as much as many others, and when everyone was evacuated by seaplane to Kwajalein two days later, she only had to put up with some diarrhea, vomiting, and a little burning and itching. They were confined to a Navy ship in the Kwajalein lagoon, while doctors took their blood and samples of their skin and bone. Iia said she watched the faces of her friends and relatives become red with pain, and after about ten days the hair on their heads and their body hair was falling away, their burned skin was peeling off in patches, their fingernails were becoming discolored and falling off, their fingers bleeding. Because they were never warned or evacuated, and the Americans had to know which way the wind was blowing, some of the people of Rongelap complained that they had been poisoned on purpose, so that the Americans could test what happens to people as a result of their bombs. She never believed it.
209_the_turn_of_the_screw	top10	120.0	She offered her mind to my disclosures as, had I wished to mix a witch’s broth and proposed it with assurance, she would have held out a large clean saucepan. This had become thoroughly her attitude by the time that, in my recital of the events of the night, I reached the point of what Miles had said to me when, after seeing him, at such a monstrous hour, almost on the very spot where he happened now to be, I had gone down to bring him in; choosing then, at the window, with a concentrated need of not alarming the house, rather that method than a signal more resonant. I had left her meanwhile in little doubt of my small hope of representing with success even to her actual sympathy my sense of the real splendor of the little inspiration with which, after I had got him into the house, the boy met my final articulate challenge. As soon as I appeared in the moonlight on the terrace, he had come to me as straight as possible; on which I had taken his hand without a word and led him, through the dark spaces, up the staircase where Quint had so hungrily hovered for him, along the lobby where I had listened and trembled, and so to his forsaken room.
lovelace_the_wine_of_astonishment_The_Wine_of_Astonishment	bot10	15.0	Bolo wait and wait in a line that was getting longer, and in front of him is this grey old man, short like a tree stump, in a oversize jacket, with his legs spread apart a little, as if they plant him there, as if somebody tell him, ‘Stand up there and wait your turn,’ and so he waiting there, this little man with the face of a mouse and a little foolish begging smile and his quick darting mouse eyes questioning and wondering, stopping anybody passing to ask, to make sure: ‘This is the line where they tell you about your land? This is the agriculture office?’ taking out from his pocket a paper again and again to show anybody who look like he could help him. ‘This is the paper they send to me.’ So one clerk go to the counter and attend to a few people, and at last this old man get to the head of the line and as he shove his hand in the pocket of his beat-up jacket, as his fingers bring out the paper, trembling, the clerk start to close the book; and the old man stand up there holding out the paper, and the clerk closing the book, and Bolo asking: ‘What happen? What you doing?’
collins_the_hunger_games_The_Hunger_Games	top10	240.0	Odd vowels, clipped words, and always a hiss on the letter s. . . no wonder it’s impossible not to mimic them. Venia makes what’s supposed to be a sympathetic face. “Good news, though. This is the last one. Ready?” I get a grip on the edges of the table I’m seated on and nod. The final swathe of my leg hair is uprooted in a painful jerk. I’ve been in the Remake Center for more than three hours and I still haven’t met my stylist. Apparently he has no interest in seeing me until Venia and the other members of my prep team have addressed some obvious problems. This has included scrubbing down my body with a gritty foam that has removed not only dirt but at least three layers of skin, turning my nails into uniform shapes, and primarily, ridding my body of hair. My legs, arms, torso, underarms, and parts of my eyebrows have been stripped of the stuff, leaving me like a plucked bird, ready for roasting. I don’t like it. My skin feels sore and tingling and intensely vulnerable. But I have kept my side of the bargain with Haymitch, and no objection has crossed my lips. “You’re doing very well,” says some guy named Flavius.
514_little_women	top10	129600.0	He was tired of wandering about alone, and Amy's familiar presence seemed to give a homelike charm to the foreign scenes in which she bore a part. He rather missed the 'petting' he used to receive, and enjoyed a taste of it again, for no attentions, however flattering, from strangers, were half so pleasant as the sisterly adoration of the girls at home. Amy never would pet him like the others, but she was very glad to see him now, and quite clung to him, feeling that he was the representative of the dear family for whom she longed more than she would confess. They naturally took comfort in each other's society and were much together, riding, walking, dancing, or dawdling, for at Nice no one can be very industrious during the gay season. But, while apparently amusing themselves in the most careless fashion, they were half-consciously making discoveries and forming opinions about each other. Amy rose daily in the estimation of her friend, but he sank in hers, and each felt the truth before a word was spoken. Amy tried to please, and succeeded, for she was grateful for the many pleasures he gave her, and repaid him with the little services to which womanly women know how to lend an indescribable charm.
bradbury_fahrenheit_451_Fahrenheit_451	top10	1.0	Everyone laughed quietly. “It can’t be,” said Montag. “It is,”replied Granger smiling. “ Were book burners, too. We read the books and burnt them, afraid they’d be found. Microfilming didn’t pay off; we were always traveling, we didn’t want to bury the film and come back later. Always the chance of discovery. Better to keep it in the old heads, where no one can see it or suspect it. We are all bits and pieces of history and literature and international law, Byron, Tom Paine, Machiavelli or Christ, it’s here. And the hour’s late. And the war’s begun. And we are out here, and the city is there, all wrapped up in its own coat of a thousand colors. What do you think, Montag?” “I think I was blind trying to go at things my way, planting books in firemen’s houses and sending in alarms.” “You did what you had to do. Carried out on a national scale, it might have worked beautifully. But our way is simpler and, we think, better. All we want to do is keep the knowledge we think we will need, intact and safe. We’re not out to incite or anger anyone yet.
scott_the_manikin_The_Manikin	bot10	5.0	Nature’s gift. Hannah? From a mile away he hears the low-voiced shriek of her reply. Come back. He wants to see her again. His Hannah. His angel. He has finally seen an angel. He wishes she would come back and glide close enough to the open window so he could reach out and touch her. Is an angel insubstantial, like fog or smoke, or would her feathers feel like the finest silk? Dear Hannah. It occurs to him that he’d better sit down or his weak legs will collapse beneath him. With some difficulty he lowers himself to the floor. Demons have sewn stones into his hands, poked pins and needles into his legs, drenched him with a bucketful of fever. He is shivering, his sweating skin ice-cold on the inside, hot on the surface. He recognizes the malady as one of those sudden summer fevers he’s prone to, fevers as short-lived as they are powerful. He needs to rest, that’s all. A midnight snooze. Nothing else to do but stretch out on the floor and pull the blanket of moonlight up to his chin. It is a night fit for profound mysteries, and Sylva is stumbling along a woodland path, trying to make sense of the mystery of her pain.
2814_dubliners	top10	1.0	His blade of human knowledge, natural astuteness particularised by long association with cases in the police courts, had been tempered by brief immersions in the waters of general philosophy. He was well informed. His friends bowed to his opinions and considered that his face was like Shakespeare’s. When the plot had been disclosed to her, Mrs Kernan had said: “I leave it all in your hands, Mr Cunningham.” After a quarter of a century of married life, she had very few illusions left. Religion for her was a habit and she suspected that a man of her husband’s age would not change greatly before death. She was tempted to see a curious appropriateness in his accident and, but that she did not wish to seem bloody-minded, she would have told the gentlemen that Mr Kernan’s tongue would not suffer by being shortened. However, Mr Cunningham was a capable man; and religion was religion. The scheme might do good and, at least, it could do no harm. Her beliefs were not extravagant. She believed steadily in the Sacred Heart as the most generally useful of all Catholic devotions and approved of the sacraments. Her faith was bounded by her kitchen but, if she was put to it, she could believe also in the banshee and in the Holy Ghost.
5230_the_invisible_man_a_grotesque_romance	top10	1.0	I felt it awkwardly, and threw it on the floor. I had a little trouble finding it again. "And then came a curious experience. I heard a miaow behind me, and turning, saw a lean white cat, very dirty, on the cistern cover outside the window. A thought came into my head. 'Everything ready for you,' I said, and went to the window, opened it, and called softly. She came in, purring--the poor beast was starving--and I gave her some milk. All my food was in a cupboard in the corner of the room. After that she went smelling round the room, evidently with the idea of making herself at home. The invisible rag upset her a bit; you should have seen her spit at it! But I made her comfortable on the pillow of my truckle-bed. And I gave her butter to get her to wash." "And you processed her?" "I processed her. But giving drugs to a cat is no joke, Kemp! And the process failed." "Failed!" "In two particulars. These were the claws and the pigment stuff, what is it?--at the back of the eye in a cat. You know?" "_Tapetum_."
4300_ulysses	top10	60.0	Gob, if he got that lottery ticket on the side of his poll he’d remember the gold cup, he would so, but begob the citizen would have been lagged for assault and battery and Joe for aiding and abetting. The jarvey saved his life by furious driving as sure as God made Moses. What? O, Jesus, he did. And he let a volley of oaths after him. —Did I kill him, says he, or what? And he shouting to the bloody dog: —After him, Garry! After him, boy! And the last we saw was the bloody car rounding the corner and old sheepsface on it gesticulating and the bloody mongrel after it with his lugs back for all he was bloody well worth to tear him limb from limb. Hundred to five! Jesus, he took the value of it out of him, I promise you. When, lo, there came about them all a great brightness and they beheld the chariot wherein He stood ascend to heaven. And they beheld Him in the chariot, clothed upon in the glory of the brightness, having raiment as of the sun, fair as the moon and terrible that for awe they durst not look upon Him. And there came a voice out of heaven, calling: Elijah! Elijah!
2166_king_solomons_mines	top10	2880.0	Indeed, in Kukuanaland, as among the Germans, the Zulus, and the Masai, every able-bodied man is a soldier, so that the whole force of the nation is available for its wars, offensive or defensive. As we travelled we were overtaken by thousands of warriors hurrying up to Loo to be present at the great annual review and festival, and more splendid troops I never saw. At sunset on the second day, we stopped to rest awhile upon the summit of some heights over which the road ran, and there on a beautiful and fertile plain before us lay Loo itself. For a native town it is an enormous place, quite five miles round, I should say, with outlying kraals projecting from it, that serve on grand occasions as cantonments for the regiments, and a curious horseshoe-shaped hill, with which we were destined to become better acquainted, about two miles to the north. It is beautifully situated, and through the centre of the kraal, dividing it into two portions, runs a river, which appeared to be bridged in several places, the same indeed that we had seen from the slopes of Sheba's Breasts. Sixty or seventy miles away three great snow-capped mountains, placed at the points of a triangle, started out of the level plain.
forsyth_the_day_of_the_jackal_The_Day_of_the_Jackal	bot20	300.0	The Colonel said simply “Rolland” and waited while his operative at the other end identified himself. Rolland then did the same by introducing into the first sentence of his conversation the correct prearranged word. A listener would have learned that he had received information that his car, which had been under repair, was mended, and could be collected at the Colonel’s convenience. Colonel Rolland thanked his informant, and returned to the table. Within five minutes he was excusing himself with urbanity, explaining that he faced a hard day in the morning and ought to get his ration of sleep. Ten minutes later he was alone in his car, speeding through the still crowded city streets towards the quieter faubourg of Porte des Lilas. He reached his office soon after one in the morning, took off his immaculate dark jacket, ordered coffee from the night staff, and rang for his assistant. The top copy of Kowalski’s confession came with the coffee. The first time, he read the twenty-six pages of the dossier quickly, trying to grasp the gist of what the demented legionnaire had been saying. Something in the middle caught his eye, causing him to frown, but he read on to the end without a pause. His second reading was slower, more cautious, giving greater concentration to each paragraph.
heyer_frederica_Frederica	bot20	1.0	‘Nevertheless, I — er — contrive to keep myself tolerably well amused!’ ‘Oh, yes, but that’s not —’ She stopped, and her colour rose. ‘I beg your pardon! I wish I could learn to keep my tongue!’ He ignored this, saying, with a wry smile: ‘You do hold me in contempt, don’t you, Frederica?’ ‘No, no!’ she said quickly. ‘You choose to call me a green girl, but I have cut my eye-teeth, you know, and I’m not wholly paper-skulled! How could you help but become bored when you have been able to command every — every agreeable luxury all your life? I expect, too,’ she added wisely, ‘that you were very much indulged, being your parents’ only son.’ Remembering the cold formality of his father, and, with more difficulty, the brief glimpses which had been granted to him of his fashionable mother, who had died while he was still at school, the sardonic curl to his mouth became more pronounced; but all he said was: ‘Very true! I came into the world hosed and shod, and was so precious to my parents that a special establishment was created for me.
dick_do_androids_dream_of_electric_sheep_Do_Androids_Dream_of_Electric_Sheep?	top20	2.0	His car phone buzzed. He picked up the receiver. The police operator said, “Mr. Deckard, a call for you from Seattle; Mr. Bryant said to put it through to you. From the Rosen Association.” “Okay,” Rick said, and waited. What do they want? he wondered. As far as he could discern, the Rosens had already proven to be bad news. And undoubtedly would continue so, whatever they intended. Rachael Rosen’s face appeared on the tiny screen. “Hello, Officer Deckard.” Her tone seemed placating; that caught his attention. “Are you busy right now or can I talk to you?” “Go ahead,” he said. “We of the association have been discussing your situation regarding the escaped Nexus-6 types, and knowing them as we do, we feel that you’ll have better luck if one of us works in conjunction with you.” “By doing what?” “Well, by one of us coming along with you. When you go out looking for them.” “Why? What would you add?” Rachael said, “The Nexus-6s would be wary at being approached by a human. But if another Nexus-6 made the contact—” “You specifically mean yourself.” “Yes.”
jones_from_here_to_eternity_From_Here_to_Eternity	bot20	3.0	“Just keep that hammer going.” The rockpile was a halfmoon surface quarry that had been worked back maybe forty yards into the hillside. There were two other guards besides the one on the road, one up on top looking down into the arena below, the other off to the right where the cleft petered out into the thin woods that led back toward the wilderness of Mount Kaala, elev 4030 ft and the highest peak on Oahu. At least over there he would be that near to the free wilderness of the mountain. Prew moved over toward that side, carrying the sledge. A gray rockdust-grimed gnome rested its hammer, looking like one of the Mountain People out of Rip Van Winkle, or one of Richard Wagner’s smithy-dwarfs grimy from deep caves in the hidden mountain fastnesses. It put a hand against its back and straightened itself and grinned at him feverishly, teeth and eyes wolfish white in the gray seams of the face. “Hello, you son of a bitch,” Angelo Maggio said. “How are you?” “My back hurts,” Prew grinned. “Ha. You should have seen mine, buddy,” Angelo grinned wolfishly. “Blacknblue for two weeks. Every time I took a piss I thought I had the clap for sure.”
southgate_third_girl_from_the_left_Third_Girl_From_the_Left	bot20	180.0	He loved the curve of her hips and buttocks under the modest dresses she favored, the sound of her laughter. Most times she was as orderly as any Tulsa housewife could be and he loved that too. But he also loved having a woman with a heart. He didn’t claim to understand it, but he knew it was there. He was a lucky man. After he left home that morning, he walked. He walked and walked. He didn’t even know where he was going. His hands were fists, his eyes blind. He must have walked for nearly two hours, maybe longer, a little past lunchtime, before he got so hot and dizzy that he had to stop. He stood in the sun for a few minutes, trying to get his bearings. Then he realized that he wasn’t far from Frank’s. Frank’s with its cool interior and sawdust-covered floor and cold beer and strong whiskey. He walked that way. He didn’t care who saw him go in, and plenty of people did. People who knew him. People who knew Mildred. He didn’t care. The interior of Frank’s was dark and comforting and at this time of day, nearly empty. A bartender made sleepy circles on the bar with a damp rag.
steinbeck_the_grapes_of_wrath_The_Grapes_of_Wrath	top20	60.0	Al looked at his brother Tom. “Care to ride in?” he said as casually as he could. “No, I can’t,” said Tom. “I’ll help aroun’ here. We’ll be—together on the road.” Al tried to control his question. “Did—did you bust out? Of jail?” “No,” said Tom. “I got paroled.” “Oh.” And Al was a little disappointed. IN THE LITTLE HOUSES the tenant people sifted their belongings and the belongings of their fathers and of their grandfathers. Picked over their possessions for the journey to the west. The men were ruthless because the past had been spoiled, but the women knew how the past would cry to them in the coming days. The men went into the barns and the sheds. That plow, that harrow, remember in the war we planted mustard? Remember a fella wanted us to put in that rubber bush they call guayule?1 Get rich, he said. Bring out those tools—get a few dollars for them. Eighteen dollars for that plow, plus freight—Sears Roebuck. Harness, carts, seeders, little bundles of hoes. Bring ’em out. Pile ’em up. Load ’em in the wagon. Take ’em to town.
mitchell_gone_with_the_wind_Gone_with_the_Wind	top20	20.0	Oh, to do this to a fine man like you!' 'What's she done?' 'She didn't write you? Oh, I guess she was too ashamed to write you. She should be ashamed! Oh, to have such a mean sister!' By this time, Frank could not even get questions to his lips. He sat staring at her, grey-faced, the reins slack in his hands. 'She's going to marry Tony Fontaine next month. Oh, I'm so sorry, Frank. So sorry to be the one to tell you. She just got tired of waiting and she was afraid she'd be an old maid.' Mammy was standing on the front porch when Frank helped Scarlett out of the buggy. She had evidently been standing there for some time, for her head-rag was damp and the old shawl clutched tightly about her showed rain-spots. Her wrinkled black face was a study in anger and apprehension and her lip was pushed out farther than Scarlett could ever remember. She peered quickly at Frank and, when she saw who it was, her face changed—pleasure, bewilderment and something akin to guilt spreading over it. She waddled forward to Frank with pleased greetings and grinned and curtsied when he shook her hand.
mckinney_whetstone_leaving_cecil_street_Leaving_Cecil_Street	bot20	1.0	The orange-and-red-and-silver-colored merry-go-round horses seemed to be spinning though she knew the carousel was still right now. The sky was a perfect blue this morning. It shouldn’t be, she thought. The sky should be a gray, thunderous sky this moment. A baby. The shame of it. The guilt and pride and dread and hope of it. She was allowing the truth of it to settle. Her eyes clouded as she listened to Shay already half into a plan. “We’ll go to Miss BB,” Shay whispered. “At least we know her. She seems careful and she doesn’t talk, all these years she’s been doing it you ever hear mention of a name? And living next door to Johnetta, if she had mentioned a name, all of Cecil Street would know. We can talk to Sondra first,” Shay said,' referring to BB’s daughter. “Though I can’t stand her with her big-butt self, she’ll keep it on the q.t., maybe she can talk her mother’s price down for us ’cause Miss BB’s probably as expensive as shit. Damn. You know Little Freddie’s gonna have to help pay too, you do realize that?
dumaurier_the_kings_general_The_King_s_General	bot20	1.0	Their appraising, hostile eyes burnt through our backs but must be endured for the sake of the fresh air we craved, and sometimes their laughter came to us. Their voices were hard and ugly, for they were mostly from London and the eastern counties, except the staff officers of Lord Robartes, and I never could abide the London twang, made doubly alien now through enmity. Never once did we see Gartred when we took our exercise, though her two daughters, reserved and unfriendly, played in the far corner of the garden, watching us and the children with blank eyes. They had neither of them inherited her beauty, but were brown-haired and heavylooking, like their dead father, Antony Denys. “I don’t know what to make of it,” said Alice in my ear. “She is supposed to be a prisoner like us, but she is not treated so. I have watched her from my window walk in the walled garden beneath the summerhouse, talking and smiling to Lord Robartes, and the servants say he dines with her most evenings.” “She only does what many other women do in wartime,” I said, “and turns the stress of the day to her advantage.” “You mean she is for the Parliament?” asked Alice.
sparks_the_notebook_The_Notebook	bot20	480.0	Mostly, though, I smile and I tell them that she is the same, and they turn from me, for I know they do not want me to see their faces. It reminds them of their own mortality. So I sit with them and read to lessen their fears. Be composed—be at ease with me ... Not till the sun excludes you do I exclude you, Not till the waters refuse to glisten for you and the leaves to rustle for you, do my words refuse to glisten and rustle for you. And I read, to let them know who I am. I wander all night in my vision,... Bending with open eyes over the shut eyes of sleepers. Wandering and confused, lost to myself, ill-assorted, contradictory. Pausing, gazing, bending, and stopping. If she could, my wife would accompany me on my evening excursions, for one of her many loves was poetry. Thomas, Whitman, Eliot, Shakespeare, and King David of the Psalms. Lovers of words, makers of language. Looking back, I am surprised by my passion for it, and sometimes I even regret it now. Poetry brings great beauty to life, but also great sadness, and I’m not sure it’s a fair exchange for someone my age.
969_the_tenant_of_wildfell_hall	top20	2880.0	talk!—I know you don’t mean it; it’s quite out of the question,’ said my mother, getting up, and bustling out of the room, under pretence of household business, in order to escape the contradiction that was trembling on my tongue. After that Rose favoured me with further particulars respecting Mrs. Graham. Her appearance, manners, and dress, and the very furniture of the room she inhabited, were all set before me, with rather more clearness and precision than I cared to see them; but, as I was not a very attentive listener, I could not repeat the description if I would. The next day was Saturday; and, on Sunday, everybody wondered whether or not the fair unknown would profit by the vicar’s remonstrance, and come to church. I confess I looked with some interest myself towards the old family pew, appertaining to Wildfell Hall, where the faded crimson cushions and lining had been unpressed and unrenewed so many years, and the grim escutcheons, with their lugubrious borders of rusty black cloth, frowned so sternly from the wall above. And there I beheld a tall, lady-like figure, clad in black. Her face was towards me, and there was something in it which, once seen, invited me to look again.
west_shoes_of_the_fisherman_The_Shoes_of_the_Fisherman	bot20	1.0	* She fixed him with a shrewd and rheumy eye. ‘ Take young Campeggio first. You know what I should do?* ‘I’d like to hear it.’ ‘Promote him. Push him forward as fast as you can. Promise him something even bigger after the election. Bind him to you with trust and friendship. His father will hate you, but the boy will love you, and I don’t think Campeggio will fight his own son ... As for Chiara and her American boy friend, leave them to me.’ ‘What do you propose to do?’ The old princess gave her high birdlike chuckle and shook her head. ‘You have no talent with women, Corrado. Just sit quietly and leave Chiara to me.’ Calitri spread his eloquent hands in a gesture of resignation. ‘Just as you say. Aunt. I’ll leave her to you.’ ‘You won’t regret it.’ * I’ll take your advice. Aunt.’ ‘I know you will. Give me a kiss now, and cheer up. You’ll have dinner with me tomorrow night. There are some people from the Vatican I want you to meet Now that you’re back in the bosom of the Church, they can begin to be useful to you.’
tademy_citizens_creek_Citizens_Creek	bot20	60.0	“This one is beauty in the making,” he said. Rose fought not to read anything into a comparison. Her younger sister was stunning, and fawned over for her ebony hair, her lively eyes, her smooth, dark skin. By the time they reached Gramma Amy at the fire pit, they’d attracted followers, but Elizabeth had no intention of giving up her place beside Uncle Harry, playing with the soft of his whiskers, a-pout when he talked to anyone else. Gramma Amy dished their visitor up a big bowl of sofki and cha-cha, and he lit into the still-warm stew as if it were a feast. “Go rouse your grandfather,” Gramma Amy said to Rose, as beguiled as everyone else with Uncle Harry. “Time to see in the day.” Rose sped to the tepee and pushed at her grandfather’s shoulder, quickly standing back. Sometimes Grampa Cow Tom woke hard, and woe to the innocent standing in the way when he came to himself from a dream. “Yes?” he mumbled, without opening his eyes. His tone was neither friendly nor harsh, reserving the right to go either way. “Harry Island’s come.” Cow Tom opened his eyes then, looked her through. “Here?”
warren_all_the_kings_men_All_the_King_s_Men	top20	60.0	And you could tell that their muscles didn’t need much loosening up. He was of medium height, perhaps a shade under, with a deep chest and big arms and nothing extra around the waist. His red hair had a crew cut, crinkly red hair showed on his chest above the underwear vest he was wearing instead of a shirt, and his skin was an even baby-pink except for the big blotches of brown freckles on his face and shoulders. In the middle of the freckles his face was all white-toothed grin and the glint of blue eyes. She was a brown lively girl, short brown hair that snapped when she pirouetted, and brown arms and shoulders above the white halter tied over her breasts, and brown legs flashing above white shoes and socks, and a little brown flat tummy between the white shorts and the white halter. They were both pretty young. They began the game right quick, and I watched them over my newspaper. Maybe the red-headed fellow wasn’t trying his hardest, but she was handing them back to him well enough and could make him move around the court. She was even taking a game from him now and then. She was a pretty thing to watch, so light and springy and serious-faced and flashy-legged.
sedgwick_the_little_french_girl_The_Little_French_Girl	bot20	1.0	I wouldn’t blame you if it were a moral objection; but it isn’t. Those friends of yours are only in because they’ve escaped being divorced. Your objection to Alix is really, when you come to look at it, that her mother is unfortunate. — Isn’t that so? ” Yes, Lady Mary reminded him, vividly now, of madame Vervier. Her soft gaze was fixed upon him with something of the same surprise, yet with all of the same security, that madame Vervier’s had shown. Madame Vervier, in Lady Mary’s place, would feel precisely as she did. And he could see madame Vervier, after the little pause, bow her head as Lady Mary bowed hers in saying: “I accept it all. That is my objection. Her mother is too unfortunate. That is exactly what it comes to.” Mrs. Bradley, shut out from her son’s understanding and from Lady Mary’s tolerance, looked from one to the other of them, a deepening flush on her girlish cheeks. “But it’s worse, far worse than unfortunate,” she said. “How could she have lived a life like that with a little daughter to care for? It isn’t as if she had had only to leave a bad husband, Giles.
haley_roots_Roots	top20	20.0	“HEISH!” She went bolting toward her cabin in tears. “What come over her?” George asked Matilda after the others had left in embarrassment. “Ain’t you know?” she snapped. “Her mammy an’ pappy in Virginia las’ she know, an’ you scare her half to death!” Chicken George looked sick. His face told her he hadn’t realized, but Matilda refused to let him off that easily. She had become convinced that for all of his worldliness, he was sorely lacking in sensitivity about too many things. “You knows well as I does Mammy Kizzy been sol’ herself! Jes’ like I was!” she told him. “Anybody ever sol’ ain’t gwine never forgit it! An’ won’t never be de same no mo’!” She looked at him significantly. “You ain’t never been. Dat’s how come you don’t understan’ no massa cain’t never be trusted—includin’ your’n!” “What you rilin’ at me fo’?” he demanded testily. “You ax me what upset Mammy Kizzy an’ I tol’ you. Ain’t got no mo’ to say ’bout it!” Matilda caught herself. She didn’t want harshness between her and her husband.
garwood_the_bride_The_Bride	bot20	1.0	Jamie had sounded so pitifully forlorn. “Then don’t hate him,” he advised. “You ain’t any good at hating anyway. Your heart’s too tender, girl. Besides,” he continued as he nudged her farther ahead, “it ain’t so unordinary after all.” “What isn’t so unordinary?” “Many a bride goes to her wedding without knowing her mate.” “But those brides were English, Beak, marrying Englishmen.” “Hush, now,” Beak ordered, hearing the fear in her voice. “He’s a good man, this Kincaid. 1 took his measure, Jamie. He’ll treat you right.” “How would you know that?” Jamie asked. She tried to stop and turn to face Beak but he kept nudging her forward. “There’s that rumor, if you’ll remember, that he killed his first wife.” “And you believe it?” Her answer was immediate. “I don’t.” “Why not?” Jamie shrugged. “I can’t explain it,” she whispered. “I just think he wouldn’t. . .” She let out a sigh, then added, “You’ll think me daft, Beak, but his eyes . . .
208_daisy_miller_a_study	top20	2.0	He was dressed in knickerbockers, with red stockings, which displayed his poor little spindle-shanks; he also wore a brilliant red cravat. He carried in his hand a long alpenstock, the sharp point of which he thrust into everything that he approached--the flowerbeds, the garden benches, the trains of the ladies’ dresses. In front of Winterbourne he paused, looking at him with a pair of bright, penetrating little eyes. “Will you give me a lump of sugar?” he asked in a sharp, hard little voice--a voice immature and yet, somehow, not young. Winterbourne glanced at the small table near him, on which his coffee service rested, and saw that several morsels of sugar remained. “Yes, you may take one,” he answered; “but I don’t think sugar is good for little boys.” This little boy stepped forward and carefully selected three of the coveted fragments, two of which he buried in the pocket of his knickerbockers, depositing the other as promptly in another place. He poked his alpenstock, lance-fashion, into Winterbourne’s bench and tried to crack the lump of sugar with his teeth. “Oh, blazes; it’s har-r-d!” he exclaimed, pronouncing the adjective in a peculiar manner.
whitehead_intuitionist_The_Intuitionist	bot20	2.0	Chuckling now. “You Intuitionists really are crazy. Maybe instead of ‘separating the elevator from elevatomess’ you should separate paranoia from fact.” She sits back and makes a fist in her lap, under the table, where the smug old cracker can’t see it. Why is he feeding her this line? The elaborate abduction scene, the trip through the industrial graveyard, making her sit in the dungeon to accelerate her fear. “You certainly made the most of the accident in your press conference,” she says. Watch his eyes through all this palaver. “There’s an election on, isn’t there? I’m supposed to make the most of it.” Chancre drops his politician game and looks deep into Lila Mae’s eyes, switching tactics as if he knows what Lila Mae is thinking. “Look, Lila Mae Watson: those friends of yours have got you into a heap of trouble. Two weeks from now, where will you be? In my Department, that’s where. The boys give you grief, I know that. But you’ve been spared. You should have seen what they did to Pompey to break him in. Now he’s my boy. I’m not like the rest of the fellas, though. I’m all for your people.
krantz_princess_daisy_Princess_Daisy	bot20	5256000.0	She had so much style, which leapt out directly from her personality, that she imparted it to his merely fashionable clothes. His abilities as a designer were limited: he knew how to make women look pretty and feminine—he specialized in cocktail and dinner dresses, leaning heavily on the allure of ruffles and the rustle of taffeta, but never in his life had he had an origfttal design idea. Yet, year after year, rich women all over the country bought Robin Valarian’s expensive couture clothes. This came about only partly because of the exceptionally friendly way in which he was treated by the fashion press, whose members enjoyed being included in the parties given by this most exclusive of couples. Essentially his clothes sold because Vanessa was so frequently photographed wearing his dresses with her swaggering, devil-be-damned flair, surrounded by people of taste and status, that “a Valarian” had come to mean a safely pretty dress in which an upper-class woman could feel almost as if she were Vanessa Valarian herself, rising to the challenge of being dashingly, ruthlessly, dashingly chic. Their duplex reflected the strength of their bond. It was not cupidity that made them load every table with precious ■<(268^ bibelots, but the nesting instinct gone wild, castle budding on a domestic scale.
asimov_foundation_i_robot_Foundation	top20	1.0	The planet, Terminus, by itself cannot support a mechanized civilization. It lacks metals. You know that. It hasn’t a trace of iron, copper, or aluminium in the surface rocks, and precious little of anything else. What do you think will happen to the Encyclopedia if this watchmacallum King of Anacreon clamps down on us?’ ‘On us? Are you forgetting that we are under the direct control of the Emperor himself? We are not part of the Prefect of Anacreon or of any other prefect. Memorize that! We are part of the Emperor's personal domain, and no one touches us. The Empire can protect its own.' ‘Then why didn’t it prevent the Royal Governor of Anacreon from kicking over the traces? And only Anacreon? At least twenty of the outermost prefects of the Galaxy, the entire Periphery as a matter of fact, have begun steering things their own way. I tell you I feel darned uncertain of the Empire and its ability to protect us.’ ‘Hokum! Royal Governors, Kings - what’s the difference? The Empire is always shot through with a certain amount of politics and with different men pulling this way and that. Governors have rebelled, and, for that matter, Emperors have been deposed, or assassinated before this.
kahn_return_of_the_jedi_Return_of_the_Jedi	top20	2.0	The room was dim except for the light cables running either side of the elevator shaft, carrying power and information through the space station. Vader walked across the sleek black steel floor, past the humming giant converter engines, up the short flight of steps to die platform level upon which sat the Emperor’s throne. Beneath this platform, off to the right, was the mouth of the shaft that delved deeply into the pit of the battle station, down to the very core of the power unit. The chasm was black, and reeked of ozone, and echoed continuously in a low, hollow rumble. At the end of the overhanging platform was a wall, in the wall, a huge, circular observation window. Sit- ting in an elaborate control-chair before the window, staring out into space, was the Emperor. The uncompleted half of the Death Star could be seen immediately beyond the window, shuttles and transports buzzing around it, men with tight-suits and rocket-packs doing exterior construction or surface work. In the near-distance beyond all this activity was the jade green moon Endor, resting like a jewel on the black velvet of space—and scattered to infinity, the gleaming diamonds that were the stars. The Emperor sat, regarding this view, as Vader approached from behind.
price_clockers_Clockers	bot20	1.0	“Now I’m really fucking confused because you said, in so many words, the guy was a fucking prick, but it turns out you’re the only one to have that opinion.” “I said I didn’t know. I was juh-just imagining.” Strike puffed his cheeks, the knife in his guts jabbing harder. “It’s my brother, man. I was just trying to help my buh-brother.” “But you had to know something to say it, right? I don’t understand. Are you sure you didn’t know him?” “Well, I might have seen him in the street or in the Ahab’s, just like, you know, you see people.” “But you called him a prick.” “I-I didn’t say that,” Strike said, his stammer making the words float away from him. “Unh-uh.” “OK, you said he had an attitude, same thing. How can you say that if you didn’t. . . Look, tell me the truth, just between me and you, no big deal. Did you ever have a confrontation with this guy?” “Unh-uh.” Strike was grateful for a question he could answer straight.
morrison_beloved_Beloved	top20	360.0	She needn’t have worried. Wrapped tight, hunched forward, as she started home her mind was busy with the things she could forget. Thank God I don’t have to rememory or say a thing because you know it. All. You know I never would a left you. Never. It was all I could think of to do. When the train came I had to be ready. Schoolteacher was teaching us things we couldn’t learn. I didn’t care nothing about the measuring string. We all laughed about that—except Sixo. He didn’t laugh at nothing. But I didn’t care. Schoolteacher’d wrap that string all over my head, ’cross my nose, around my behind. Number my teeth. I thought he was a fool. And the questions he asked was the biggest foolishness of all. Then me and your brothers come up from the second patch. The first one was close to the house where the quick things grew: beans, onions, sweet peas. The other one was further down for long-lasting things, potatoes, pumpkin, okra, pork salad. Not much was up yet down there. It was early still. Some young salad maybe, but that was all. We pulled weeds and hoed a little to give everything a good start.
lawrence_three_complete_novels_Lady_Chatterley_s_Lover	top20	5.0	Dress, jewels up to a point, any night-club you like, know anybody you want to know, live the pace . . . travel and be somebody wherever you go. . . . Dam it, every sort of good time.” He spoke it almost in a brilliancy of triumph, and Connie looked at him as if dazzled, and really feeling nothing at all. Hardly even the surface of her mind was tickled at the glowing prospects he offered her. Hardly even her most outside self responded, that at any other time would have been thrilled. She just got no feeling from it all, she couldn’t “go off.” She just sat and stared and looked dazzled, and felt nothing, only somewhere she smelt the extraordinary unpleasant smell of the bitch-goddess. Mick sat on tenterhooks, leaning forward in his chair, glaring at her almost hysterically: and whether he was more anxious out of vanity for her to say Yes! or whether he was more panic-stricken for fear she should say Yes—who can tell? “I should have to think about it,” she said. “I couldn’t say now. It may seem to you Clifford doesn’t count, but he does. When you think how disabled he is. . . .”
allen_anthony_adverse_Anthony_Adverse	bot20	5.0	Then he felt her arms wind around him in the dark. They were smooth and cool, smoother than his own. Her hand pressed his head onto her breast. He was half blind, and speechless now. All his senses had merged into one feeling. She seemed to be carrying him somewhere. As he stepped through the moony darkness his legs had lost the sensation of weight. “I shall think it is Angela,” he said to himself. But he soon forgot all about Angela. He could remember nothing but himself. To lie face downward on smooth, soft water with warmth lapping you about, that had always been delightful. How easily your arms and legs moved in such an element. The whole surface of the body felt its soft, exquisite touch. To be supported and yet possessed by an ocean of unknown blue depths below you and to cease to think! Yes, it was something like swimming on a transcendent summer night. Although his eyes were tightly closed, he was looking into dim, moonlit depths where blue and green flashes of light and long silver shafts wavered down to the darker depths below him. On the subliminal floor of this ocean in which he was now submerged, the same shadow-play that had haunted the walls of his room seemed to be going on.
4276_north_and_south	top20	1.0	I am constantly wanting you to draw him for me, Margaret. It does not signify what he is doing; that very thing is prettiest, gracefulest, best. I think I love him a great deal better than my husband, who is getting stout, and grumpy,--what he calls "busy." No! he is not. He has just come in with news of such a charming pic-nic, given by the officers of the Hazard, at anchor in the bay below. Because he has brought in such a pleasant piece of news, I retract all I said just now. Did not somebody burn his hand for having said or done something he was sorry for? Well, I can't burn mine, because it would hurt me, and the scar would be ugly; but I'll retract all I said as fast as I can. Cosmo is quite as great a darling as baby, and not a bit stout, and as un-grumpy as ever husband was; only, sometimes he is very, very busy. I may say that without love--wifely duty--where was I?--I had something very particular to say, I know, once. Oh, it is this--Dearest Margaret!--you must come and see me; it would do Aunt Hale good, as I said before.
367_country_of_the_pointed_firs	top20	1.0	TODD HAD taken the onion out of her basket and laid it down upon the kitchen table. “There’s Johnny Bowden come with us, you know,” she reminded her mother. “He’ll be hungry enough to eat his size.” “I’ve got new doughnuts, dear,” said the little old lady. “You don’t often catch William ‘n’ me out o’ provisions. I expect you might have chose a somewhat larger fish, but I’ll try an’ make it do. I shall have to have a few extra potatoes, but there’s a field full out there, an’ the hoe’s leanin’ against the well-house, in ‘mongst the climbin’-beans.” She smiled and gave her daughter a commanding nod. “Land sakes alive! Le’s blow the horn for William,” insisted Mrs. Todd, with some excitement. “He needn’t break his spirit so far’s to come in. He’ll know you need him for something particular, an’ then we can call to him as he comes up the path. I won’t put him to no pain.” Mrs. Blackett’s old face, for the first time, wore a look of trouble, and I found it necessary to counteract the teasing spirit of Almira.
mcfadden_glorious_Glorious	bot20	5.0	Henry had wandered off to the music room and was playing the piano. At the sound of the word he’d missed a note and begun the score from the beginning. “Nigger,” Nancy whispered. “It’s the vilest word in the English language and I don’t understand how it’s used so freely here in this country. It’s bounced around like a child’s ball. And to use it in literature, in the very thing that should bring the races together...” Nancy shook her head in dismay. “Well, I think it’s just awful.” Meredith was unfazed because she understood that as unsavory as the word was, it was also a part of life, a stitch in the American quilt. One would have to go back hundreds of years to rid the world of it and everyone knew the past could not be undone, so the word, as far as Meredith was concerned, was here to stay. But she humored Nancy: “Darling, you are absolutely right.” Her eyes swung to Easter and then back to Nancy. “Did I tell you that Easter is also working on a book?” Nancy grinned. “Oh my, I had no idea that you were a writer.” “Oh yes, and a very talented one.
76_adventures_of_huckleberry_finn	top10	10.0	The two young men looked dark, but never said nothing. Miss Sophia she turned pale, but the color come back when she found the man warn't hurt. Soon as I could get Buck down by the corn-cribs under the trees by ourselves, I says: “Did you want to kill him, Buck?” “Well, I bet I did.” “What did he do to you?” “Him? He never done nothing to me.” “Well, then, what did you want to kill him for?” “Why, nothing--only it's on account of the feud.” “What's a feud?” “Why, where was you raised? Don't you know what a feud is?” “Never heard of it before--tell me about it.” “Well,” says Buck, “a feud is this way: A man has a quarrel with another man, and kills him; then that other man's brother kills _him_; then the other brothers, on both sides, goes for one another; then the _cousins_ chip in--and by and by everybody's killed off, and there ain't no more feud. But it's kind of slow, and takes a long time.”
105_persuasion	top20	120.0	Her countenance, perhaps, might express some watchfulness; but the praise of the fine mind did not appear to excite a thought in her sister. The lady could not but yield to such joint entreaties, and promise to stay. In the course of the same morning, Anne and her father chancing to be alone together, he began to compliment her on her improved looks; he thought her less thin in her person, in her cheeks; her skin, her complexion, greatly improved; clearer, fresher. Had she been using any thing in particular? No, nothing. Merely Gowland, he supposed. No, nothing at all. Ha! he was surprised at that; and added, certainly you cannot do better than to continue as you are; you cannot be better than well; or I should recommend Gowland, the constant use of Gowland, during the spring months. Mrs Clay has been using it at my recommendation, and you see what it has done for her. You see how it has carried away her freckles. If Elizabeth could but have heard this! Such personal praise might have struck her, especially as it did not appear to Anne that the freckles were at all lessened. But everything must take its chance.
butler_seed_to_harvest_Wild_Seed	bot20	20160.0	Perhaps Anyanwu spoke to them. For once, Doro did not care. He knew he was no longer fearsome to them; he was only another of Anyanwu's lovers. How long had it been since he was only someone's lover? He could not remember. He went away now and then to take care of his businesses, put in an appearance at one of his nearer settlements. Bring this body back to me as long as you can, Anyanwu would tell him. There cannot be two as perfect as this. He would laugh and promise her nothing. Who knew what punishment he might have to inflict, what madman he might have to subdue, what stupid, stubborn politician, businessman, planter, or other fool he might have to remove? Also, wearing a black body in country where blacks were under constant obligation to prove they had rights to even limited freedom was a hindrance. He traveled with one of his older white sons, Frank Winston, whose fine old Virginia family had belonged to Doro since Doro brought it from England 135 years before. The man could be as distinguished and aristocratic or as timid and naive as he chose to be, as Doro ordered him to be. He had no inborn strangeness great enough to qualify him as good breeding stock.
quinn_the_alice_network_The_Alice_Network	bot10	5.0	He shook his head, hair falling over his eyes again. “She’s not one for judging people.” “Neither am I.” “You still shouldn’t be hanging around a bad apple like me.” “Finn, I’m a former good girl, and a current unwed mother-to-be. Eve’s a former spy, and a current drunk. You’re a former convict, and a current mechanic and driver and cooker of English breakfasts. You know why none of us judge?” I bumped his shoulder with mine until he finally looked down at me. “Because none of us have the goddamn right to look down our noses at anyone else’s sins.” He looked down at me with an invisible smile that began and ended in the corners of his eyes. I reached behind me and hoisted myself up to sit on the Lagon-da’s long hood. It put me almost level with Finn when he turned to face me, as I leaned forward to fit my mouth carefully, gently, against his. His lips were soft and his jaw rough, just like the first time I’d tried to kiss him. Just like the first time, his hands rose to my waist—but this time I broke off the kiss before he could move back.
johnson_now_in_november_Now_in_November	bot10	15.0	They were used to her doing this! For five minutes Kerrin rushed on with her questions, then slammed the book shut quickly. She looked up and saw me without at first knowing who it was. I saw the blood wash up her face in a tide and go away leaving only the soiled, burnt color of her skin. She was angry and nervous as if she’d been caught in some nasty thing. ‘When did you sneak up here? Who sent you?’ she kept asking before I had a chance to say. She came to the door, and her thin face looked blotched and ugly out in the glaring light. Even when I explained to her why I’d come, and she called out Whit to tell him, it was more the shock of my coming than the news of Old Wally’s death that concerned her. ‘Who sent you?’ she asked. ‘What’d you sneak up here for? Why didn’t they come themselves?’ When Whit came outside she told him to go on home. ‘Your folks called up. You’ve got to go home.’ The boy looked scared and sullen, and didn’t seem to believe her. ‘Your uncle’s dead,’ she told him. ‘Hay-hoist knocked him off.’
mailer_executioners_song_The_Executioner_s_Song	bot10	540.0	2 Sept. 27 I can’t sleep in the daytime. Sometimes I try but I always wake up in a cold sweat and I hear the cars on the hiway and see the light coming brightly thru the bars and know how far away I am from it all. I know that dying is just changinform. I don’t expect to escape any of my debts, I’ll meet them and I’ll pay them. I want to quit racking up such heavy debts though! I fucked you all night in my mind Nicole. I sent love over all the distance to Springville, which is not at all a ball o’chalk, I could run that meagre distance without stopping! I loved you so hard and wet and long last nite Angel and I held you to me tite tite tite and you felt good. I kissed your forehead your nose your eyes, your cheeks and long and wet on your lips your neck I fucked your ears with my tongue and heard you cry out oh oh oh ooooh baby I kissed all down your body, put your tits in my mouth all I could get in there and I put my face between them sucked your big nipples fucked your belly button pushed my tongue in your mouth in your cunt in your ass your pretty fuckin ass. God I love your pretty pretty ass.
james_fifty_shades_of_grey_Fifty_Shades_of_Grey	top10	10.0	“Yes,” 1 breathe, because my mouth is suddenly parched. I hear the ice clink against the glass, and he leans down and kisses me, pouring a delicious, crisp liquid into my mouth as he does. It’s white wine. It’s so unexpected, so hot, though it’s chilled and Christian’s lips are cool. “More?” he whispers. I nod. It tastes all the more divine because it’s been in his mouth. He leans down, and I drink another mouthful from his lips. . . oh my. “Let’s not go too far; we know your capacity for alcohol is limited, Anastasia.” I can’t help it. I grin, and he leans down to deliver another delicious mouthful. He shifts so he’s lying beside me, his erection at my hip. Oh, I want him inside me. “Is this nice?” he asks, but I hear the edge in his voice. I tense. He moves the glass again and leans down, kissing me and depositing a small shard of ice in my mouth with a little wine. He slowly and leisurely trails chilled kisses down the center of my body, from the base of my throat to between my breasts, down my torso to my belly.
lurie_foreign_affairs_Foreign_Affairs	bot10	7200.0	Let’s make hay while the sun shines,” she had said to him once, laughing softly. A few days later he had bought her a print of Breughel’s The Haymakers, and she had tacked it on the pale-flowered wallpaper above the night stand; it is still there. He knows now for sure that Mrs. Harris has been spying on them, sneaking round and listening at doors and/or on the kitchen extension. Sick, sickening. He turns away, giving up on his book and his shirt, wanting now only to get the hell out of here. “Excuse me, please,” he says angrily. But Mrs. Harris doesn’t move aside. Instead she stumbles even closer. Her dirty face, what little Fred can see of it under the peroxided hair, is smeared with what looks like a mixture of soot and lipstick; he can smell her unwashed odor and her foul breath. She puts out her hand, and the soiled flowered wrapper she is wearing falls open it; beneath it is incongruously white, voluptuous naked flesh. “Oh, darling!” she whispers in a drunken, wheezing imitation of Rosemary’s voice. She grabs Fred’s arm; she sags toward him and begins to rub her body against his. “Quit that!” he cries.
welty_the_optimists_daughter_The_Optimist_s_Daughter	bot10	5.0	Phil had the gift—the gift of his hands. And he planed— fitted—glued—clamped—it’s made on the true, look and see, it’s still as straight as his T-square. Tongued and grooved—tight-fitted, every edge—” “I couldn’t care less,” said Fay. “I watched him make it. He’s the one in the family who could make things. We were a family of comparatively helpless people—that’s what so bound us, bound us together. My mother blessed him when she saw this. She said it was sound and beautiful and exactly suited her long-felt needs, and she welcomed it into her kitchen.” “It’s mine now,” said Fay. “But I’m the one that’s going to take care of it,” said Laurel. “You mean you’re asking me to give it to you?” “I’m going to take it back to Chicago with me.” “What makes you think I’ll let you? What’s made you so brazen all at once ?” “Finding the breadboard!” Laurel cried. She placed both hands down on it and gave it the weight of her body. “Fine Miss Laurel!” said Fay.
atta_everything_good_will_come_Everything_Good_Will_Come	bot10	180.0	In good homes, they could be treated like distant cousins; in bad homes, they could be deprived of food, or beaten. I had more than once suggested that they were a few degrees separated from blacks in old Mississippi and in apartheid South Africa. “But that’s racism,” someone would say. Pierre began to chop the okras. I ground the peppers and onions. Later he washed and cut the meat and I braised it. We worked together, cutting and frying, stirring and pouring. My eyes streamed from pepper and palm oil fumes settled in my braids. Steam scalded my wrists. Three hours later, we’d finished four separate stews. Pierre scooped them into Tupperware containers and placed them in the freezer. I handed him a plate of lunch and decided to have a wash. Behind our bathroom door, we kept a drum of water. I filled my bathing bucket and topped it up with boiling water from a kettle. But for the bump under my belly button, my body was the same as it was before I became pregnant. I’d finished soaping myself when the electricity generator next door began to roar. “Shit,” I said, remembering the food in my freezer. Quickly, I scooped bowls of water from the bucket over my body and came out.
catton_the_luminaries_The_Luminaries	bot10	5.0	If your passengers truly numbered eight, and Walter Moody was truly among them.” “Eight—and all accounted for. They took the lighter in to shore that afternoon—six hours, maybe seven hours, before we rolled.” “Then he must have taken a false name.” “Why would he do that?” “Well, perhaps he was lying, then. About having come over on Godspeed “Why would he do that?” Evidently Lydia Wells could not produce a response to this either, for after a moment she said, “What are you thinking, Francis?” “I’m thinking to write my old friend Adrian a letter.” “Yes, do,” said Mrs. Wells. “And I shall make some inquiries of my own.” “The insurance money did come through. Gascoigne was as good as his word.” Presendy she said, “Let’s to bed.” “You’ve had a trying day.” “A very trying day.” “It’ll all come out right, in the end.” “She’ll get what she deserves,” said Mrs. Wells. “I should also like to get what I deserve, Francis.” “It’s dreary for you, waiting.” “Frightfully.”
78_tarzan_of_the_apes	top10	7200.0	The second day a fever had come and D'Arnot thought that it meant infection and he knew that he would die. An idea came to him. He wondered why he had not thought of it before. He called Tarzan and indicated by signs that he would write, and when Tarzan had fetched the bark and pencil, D'Arnot wrote: Can you go to my people and lead them here? I will write a message that you may take to them, and they will follow you. Tarzan shook his head and taking the bark, wrote: I had thought of that--the first day; but I dared not. The great apes come often to this spot, and if they found you here, wounded and alone, they would kill you. D'Arnot turned on his side and closed his eyes. He did not wish to die; but he felt that he was going, for the fever was mounting higher and higher. That night he lost consciousness. For three days he was in delirium, and Tarzan sat beside him and bathed his head and hands and washed his wounds. On the fourth day the fever broke as suddenly as it had come, but it left D'Arnot a shadow of his former self, and very weak. Tarzan had to lift him that he might drink from the gourd.
2489_moby_dick	top10	2.0	he demanded. "I was thinking of shipping." "Thou wast, wast thou? I see thou art no Nantucketer-- ever been in a stove boat?" "No, Sir, I never have." "Dost know nothing at all about whaling, I dare say--eh? "Nothing, Sir; but I have no doubt I shall soon learn. I've been several voyages in the merchant service, and I think that-" "Merchant service be damned. Talk not that lingo to me. Dost see that leg?--I'll take that leg away from thy stern, if ever thou talkest of the merchant service to me again. Marchant service indeed! I suppose now ye feel considerable proud of having served in those marchant ships. But flukes! man, what makes thee want to go a whaling, eh?--it looks a little suspicious, don't it, eh?--Hast not been a pirate, hast thou?-- Didst not rob thy last Captain, didst thou?--Dost not think of murdering the officers when thou gettest to sea?" I protested my innocence of these things. I saw that under the mask of these half humorous innuendoes, this old seaman, as an insulated Quakerish Nantucketer, was full of his insular prejudices, and rather distrustful of all aliens, unless they hailed from Cape Cod or the Vineyard.
tolkien_lord_of_the_rings_The_Fellowship_of_the_Ring	top10	1.0	The Swan passed on slowly to the hythe, and they turned their boats and followed it. There in the last end of Egladil upon the green grass the parting feast was held; but Frodo ate and drank little, heeding only the beauty of the Lady and her voice. She seemed no longer perilous or terrible, nor filled with hidden power. Already she seemed to him, as by men of later days Elves still at times are seen: present and yet remote, a living vision of that which has already been left far behind by the flowing streams of Time. After they had eaten and drunk, sitting upon the grass, Celebom spoke to them again of their journey, and lifting his hand he pointed south to the woods beyond the Tongue. ‘As you go down the water,’ he said, ‘you will find that the trees will fail, and you will come to a barren country. There the River flows in stony vales amid high moors, until at last after many leagues it comes to the tall island of the Tindrock, that we call Tol Brandir. There it casts its arms about the steep shores of the isle, and falls then with a great noise and smoke over the cataracts of Rauros down into the Nindalf, the Wetwang as it is called in your tongue.
mukherjee_the_lives_of_others_The_Lives_of_Others	bot10	10.0	By the time Bhola was about five minutes into his telling, Somnath was a figure carved in stone. A shout came from inside the house: ‘Bholaaaa, Sooom, what are you doing outside? Come in right now. I’m making bananas-milk-puffed-rice for you. Come in quickly.’ Their mother. Som clung tighter to his brother’s neck and shook his head forcefully. Bhola put a finger to his lips and said, ‘I’ll come with you too.’ The hold on his neck relaxed somewhat. And so Bhola’s logorrhoea began to mutate into story-telling, the transparent, sense-filled words now a clear pane of glass between sound and meaning, offering a view of a fantastically confabulated world of wood-fairies, incarnations and metempsychosis, of imaginary beasts and birds and their magical powers, of mangoes so sour that a whole forest of monkeys was struck dumb after eating them off the trees . . . and so it went on, over the years. One day Adinath overheard, in passing, a particularly colourful story about speaking fish that could transform themselves into malignant spirits residing in tamarind trees and remarked, ‘Arrey, you are not half-bad at spinning tales. When you grow up, you will be a writer.’
lee_to_kill_a_mockingbird_To_Kill_a_Mockingbird	top10	2.0	He has no money.” “Are we poor, Atticus?” Atticus nodded. “We are indeed.” Jem’s nose wrinkled. “Are we as poor as the Cunninghams?” “Not exactly. The Cunninghams are country folks, farmers, and the crash hit them hardest.” Atticus said professional people were poor because the farmers were poor. As Maycomb County was farm country, nickels and dimes were hard to come by for doctors and dentists and lawyers. Entailment was only a part of Mr. Cunningham’s vexations. The acres not entailed were mortgaged to the hilt, and the little cash he made went to interest. If he held his mouth right, Mr. Cunningham could get a WPA job, but his land would go to ruin if he left it, and he was willing to go hungry to keep his land and vote as he pleased. Mr. Cunningham, said Atticus, came from a set breed of men. As the Cunninghams had no money to pay a lawyer, they simply paid us with what they had. “Did you know,” said Atticus, “that Dr. Reynolds works the same way? He charges some folks a bushel of potatoes for delivery of a baby. Miss Scout, if you give me your attention I’ll tell you what entailment is.
550_silas_marner	top10	1.0	It was one of my family did you the wrong--the more grief to me--and I feel bound to make up to you for it in every way. Whatever I can do for you will be nothing but paying a debt, even if I looked no further than the robbery. But there are other things I'm beholden--shall be beholden to you for, Marner." Godfrey checked himself. It had been agreed between him and his wife that the subject of his fatherhood should be approached very carefully, and that, if possible, the disclosure should be reserved for the future, so that it might be made to Eppie gradually. Nancy had urged this, because she felt strongly the painful light in which Eppie must inevitably see the relation between her father and mother. Silas, always ill at ease when he was being spoken to by "betters", such as Mr. Cass--tall, powerful, florid men, seen chiefly on horseback--answered with some constraint-- "Sir, I've a deal to thank you for a'ready. As for the robbery, I count it no loss to me. And if I did, you couldn't help it: you aren't answerable for it." "You may look at it in that way, Marner, but I never can; and I hope
18581_adrift_in_new_york_tom_and_florence_braving_the_world	bot10	5.0	I shall try to secure a reporter's berth on one of the daily papers-- the _Call_ or _Chronicle_. I will wait a few days, however, as I have a few hundred dollars by me, and can afford to take a little time to look around. "I wish I were as well provided; but I have less than twenty-five dollars." "Don't worry about that, Arthur," said Randolph, laying his hand affectionately on the boy's shoulder. "I shall not allow you to want." "Thank you, Mr. Leslie," said Dodger, gratefully. "It's something new to me to have a friend like you. But I don't want to be any expense to you. I am large enough and strong enough to earn my own living." "True; and I feel sure you will have a chance in this enterprising city." They bought copies of the day's papers, and Dodger looked eagerly over the advertising columns. At length he saw an advertisement that read as follows: WANTED--A young man of 18 or 20 to assist in the office of a local express. Inquire at No. -- ---- St." "Do you think I would answer for such a place?"
dangarembga_nervous_conditions_Nervous_Conditions	bot10	2.0	At the door a nun, smiling beatifically, made us welcome by shaking our hands and asking us ‘Which one is this?’ before taking us up steps and down corridors to a room at the end of a long hallway. ‘All the first-formers live on this corridor,’ she explained as she led the way. ‘And the Africans live in here,’ she announced, triumphantly flinging the door to my new life wide open. The room was empty. I was, it seemed, the first black first-former to have arrived. It was not a small room but then neither was it large. It certainly was not large enough for the six beds that stood in it, three along one wall and three along the other, all of necessity so closely arranged that there was barely space to walk between them. ‘This is your room,’ the nun said, smiling first at Nyasha and then at me, and then confessing her confusion. ‘Mr See-ga-ookey,’ she smiled, ‘you have only one coming. Which one is it?’ She had forgotten already although we had been introduced at the door. I wished I had been wearing uniform like the other girls I had seen. Then she would have known who I was.
whitehead_the_underground_railroad_The_Underground_Railroad	bot10	20160.0	Lovey visited her friend as well, but the young girl was not immune to Hob’s reputation and got skittish in the presence of Nag and Mary and the others. She stayed until her nerves gave out. Cora lay on the floor and moaned. Two weeks after her beating, she endured dizzy spells and a pounding in her skull. For the most part she was able to keep it at bay and work the row, but sometimes it was all she could do to stay upright until the sun sank. Every hour when the water girl brought the ladle she licked it clean and felt the metal on her teeth. Now she had nothing left. Mary appeared. “Sick again,” she said. She had a wet cloth ready and placed it on Cora’s brow. She still maintained a reservoir of maternal feeling after the loss of her five children— three dead before they could walk and the others sold off when they were old enough to carry water and grab weeds around the great house. Mary descended from pure Ashanti stock, as did her two husbands. Pups like that, it didn’t take much salesmanship. Cora moved her mouth in silent thanks. The cabin walls pressed on her. Up in the loft one of the other women—Rida by the stench—rummaged and banged.
niland_the_shiralee_The_Shiralee	bot10	5.0	Macauley knew Fang Davis. He was never done grizzling. If it wasn’t the weather it was the sheep. If it wasn’t the sheep it was the tucker, if not the tucker the accommodation. He had a mean, pinched-up, achy face, and went about with his hat brim cocked up at the back and a hand to his stomach as though he never felt too good. His day was an ordeal of jealousy and frustration. He was never satisfied with his tally. He would have done better only, he whinged, his back ached, he jinked his wrist, or his corns gave him gyp. The recollection made Macauley laugh impulsively. He went outside and surveyed the scene. Everything was nice and compact. A small two-room dwelling twenty yards from the cookhouse was the classer’s and expert’s quarters. The shed itself stood on a slight rise. He inspected it inside, the long board, the wool room, the empty bins, the slatted tables, the Ferrier press. The empty pens smelled of ammonia. Grass grew in the chutes. Soon the earth there would be trampled bare. Everything was ready to go. He walked down the slope. The first huts were the usual barrack-like building, three rooms adjoining and a door to each.
rimington_at_risk_At_Risk	bot10	2.0	Twenty Putty of the Silly variety coming up. Uno, dos, tres ...” As she followed Faraj out of the shop, bag in hand, the assistant called after her. “Excuse me, you’ve left your ...” Her heart lurched. He was waving the shopping list. Apologetically pushing her way back to the counter, she took it from him. On it were visible the words clear gelatin, isopropyl, candles, pipe cleaners; his fingers covered up the rest. Outside, as she clutched the list and the carrier bag, Faraj looked at her with controlled anger from beneath the brim of his Yankees baseball cap. “Pm sorry,” she said, her eyes watering in the sudden cold. “I don’t think they’ll remember us. They’re very busy.” Her chest, though, was still pounding. The list looked harmless enough, but to anyone with a certain sort of military experience it would send an unmistakable message. That said, of course, such a person was hardly likely . .. “Remember who you are,” he told her quietly, speaking in Urdu. “Remember why we’re here.” “I know who I am,” she snapped in the same language. “And I remember all that I have to remember.”
11231_bartleby_the_scrivener_a_story_of_wallstreet	top10	1.0	Whether Bartleby's eyes improved or not, I could not say. To all appearance, I thought they did. But when I asked him if they did, he vouchsafed no answer. At all events, he would do no copying. At last, in reply to my urgings, he informed me that he had permanently given up copying. "What!" exclaimed I; "suppose your eyes should get entirely well--better than ever before--would you not copy then?" "I have given up copying," he answered, and slid aside. He remained as ever, a fixture in my chamber. Nay--if that were possible--he became still more of a fixture than before. What was to be done? He would do nothing in the office: why should he stay there? In plain fact, he had now become a millstone to me, not only useless as a necklace, but afflictive to bear. Yet I was sorry for him. I speak less than truth when I say that, on his own account, he occasioned me uneasiness. If he would but have named a single relative or friend, I would instantly have written, and urged their taking the poor fellow away to some convenient retreat. But he seemed alone, absolutely alone in the universe.
guthrie_the_way_west_The_Way_West	bot10	2.0	“Injuns? You see Injuns?’ Mack said, “No.” “Critters was uneasy,” Brownie put in. Mack couldn’t see the cattle now. The sound of their hoofs was a far drumming. Above it he heard the sudden voices of the other sentinels. Summers asked them, “Injuns?” “ ’Y God, yes," McBee answered. “Sure?” “No,” Patch said. “I seen one. One, or a wolf,” Holdridge added. Tadlock shouldered ahead. “Get horses, damn it!” “Hold up!” “What’s wrong with you. Summers? You want to hold a meeting?” Summers didn’t answer, but Lije Evans spoke out, “Leave it to Dick.” “Summers isn’t captain. Get your horses!” Summers spoke then, spoke with something in his voice that Mack liked but still resisted. “Don’t forgit yourself, hoss.” “I’m not forgetting those cattle.” Patch’s tone was mild. “Most of them are yours.” “Goddam it! What’s that got to do with it? You want to lose yours?” The men had crowded into a close bunch. A half dozen of them were trying to talk.
diaz_in_the_distance_In_the_Distance	bot10	0.08333333333333333	Vast, frantic, intricate, terraced, roaring, twisting, the quarry was an insane city for an unknown species. Through this maze ran roads on which debris-filled carts tottered behind miserable beasts. Those pump cars on wooden bars rolled in and out of tunnels with rocks, tools, and men. The sound of metal on stone, like hard raindrops, filled the air. Clouds of smoke blossomed here and there, followed by the roll of an explosion. Under the malignant sun, dusty men walked back and forth along narrow ledges, climbed up and down ladders, and crawled in and out of caves, carrying gear and boulders. Some of them gestured and screamed out their instructions, but no voice was heard beneath the tumult. Armed guards everywhere. At almost all times, there was a minor avalanche somewhere that sent handfuls of little miners running in every direction. This inhuman place, with its filthy pits, abrupt walls, and tiered plateaus descending into the broken earth like a gigantic staircase, extended beyond the reach of the eye. Wherever Brennan’s hoard was, it had been swept away like dust. Nothing left behind in the wilderness could ever be retrieved. Every encounter was final. Nobody came back from beyond the horizon. It was impossible to return to anything or anyone.
jemisin_the_stone_sky_The_Stone_Sky	bot10	1.0	This is a group force-march along a highroad that is shaky and full of holes big enough to drop a house through. Highroads are built to withstand shakes, but there’s a limit, and the Rifting definitely surpassed it. Ykka decided to take the risk because even a damaged highroad is faster to travel than the desert sand, but this takes a toll. Every orogene in the comm has to stay on alert, because anything worse than a microshake while you’re up here could spell disaster. One day Penty, too exhausted to pay attention to her own instincts, steps on a patch of cracked asphalt that’s completely unstable. One of the other rogga kids snatches her away just as a big piece simply falls through the substructure of the road. Others are less careful, and less lucky. The acid rain was unexpected. Stonelore does not discuss the ways in which Seasons can impact weather, because such things are unpredictable at the best of times. What happens here is not entirely surprising, however. Northward, at the equator, the Rifting pumps heat and particulates into the air. Moisture-laden tropical winds coming off the sea hit this cloud-seeding, energyinfusing wall, which whips them into storm. You remember being worried about snow. No. It’s endless, miserable rain.
lahiri_interpreter_of_maladies_Interpreter_of_Maladies	bot10	10.0	He put down two embroidered place mats, a wedding gift from an uncle in Lucknow, and set out the plates and wineglasses they usually saved for guests. He put the ivy in the middle, the white-edged, star-shaped leaves girded by ten little candles. He switched on the digital clock radio and tuned it to a jazz station. “What's all this?” Shoba said when she came downstairs. Her hair was wrapped in a thick white towel. She undid the towel and draped it over a chair, allowing her hair, damp and dark, to fall across her back. As she walked absently toward the stove she took out a few tangles with her fingers. She wore a clean pair of sweatpants, a T-shirt, an old flannel robe. Her stomach was flat again, her waist narrow before the flare of her hips, the belt of the robe tied in a floppy knot. It was nearly eight. Shukumar put the rice on the table and the lentils from the night before into the microwave oven, punching the numbers on the timer. "You made roganjosh,” Shoba observed, looking through the glass lid at the bright paprika stew. Shukumar took out a piece of lamb, pinching it quickly between his fingers so as not to scald himself.
rawling_the_yearling_The_Yearling	top20	2.0	Rations had been short and hookworm abundant. Penny had grown to maturity no bigger than a boy. His feet were small, his shoulders narrow, his ribs and hips jointed together in a continuous fragile framework. He had stood among the Forresters one day, like an ash sapling among giant oaks. Lem Forrester looked down at him and said, “Why, you leetle ol’ penny-piece, you. You’re good money, a’right, but hit jest don’t come no smaller. Leetle ol’ Penny Baxter-” The name had been his only one ever since. When he voted, he signed himself “Ezra Ezekial Baxter,” but when he paid his taxes, he was put down as “Penny Baxter” and made no protest. But he was a sound amalgam; sound as copper itself; and with something, too, of the copper’s softness. He leaned backward in his honesty, so that he was often a temptation to store-keepers and mill-owners and horse-traders. Store-keeper Boyles at Volusia, as honest as he, had once given him a dollar too much in change. His horse being lame. Penny had walked the long miles back again to return it. “The next time you came to trade would have done,” Boyles said.
ludlum_materese_circle_The_Matarese_Circle	bot20	15.0	Later, if the fragile scrap was curled or the surface broken, that would tell him something else: the bag had been searched and he was in the Matarese sights. Ten minutes later he rang the bell of Theodore Goldman’s house on Brattle Street. It was opened by a slender, middle-aged woman, her face pleasant, her eyes curious. “Mrs. Goldman?” “Yes?” “I telephoned your husband a few minutes ago—” “Oh, yes, of course,” she interrupted. “Well, for heaven’s sake, get out of the rain! It’s coming down like the forty-day flood. Come in, come in. I’m Anne Goldman.” She took his coat and hat; he held his attache case. “I apologize for disturbing you.” “Don’t be foolish. Aaron told us all about that night in ... The Hague. You know, I’ve never been able to figure out where that place is. Why would a city be called the anything?” “It’s confusing.” “I gather our son was very confused that night; which is a mother’s way of saying he was plastered.” She gestured toward a squared-off, double doorway so common to old New England houses.
599_vanity_fair	top20	720.0	The velvet-footed butler brought them their wine, and they composed themselves to a rubber after dinner, at which Major Dobbin would sometimes come and take a hand; and Mrs. Osborne would occasionally descend, when her patient above was settled for the night, and had commenced one of those lightly troubled slumbers which visit the pillow of old age. The old man clung to his daughter during this sickness. He would take his broths and medicines from scarcely any other hand. To tend him became almost the sole business of her life. Her bed was placed close by the door which opened into his chamber, and she was alive at the slightest noise or disturbance from the couch of the querulous invalid. Though, to do him justice, he lay awake many an hour, silent and without stirring, unwilling to awaken his kind and vigilant nurse. He loved his daughter with more fondness now, perhaps, than ever he had done since the days of her childhood. In the discharge of gentle offices and kind filial duties, this simple creature shone most especially. "She walks into the room as silently as a sunbeam," Mr. Dobbin thought as he saw her passing in and out from her father's room, a cheerful sweetness lighting up her face as she moved to and fro, graceful and noiseless.
gabaldon_outlander_Outlander	top20	300.0	“Have you anything to say to me now, Madam?” he demanded. “Your wig is crooked,” I said, and closed my eyes again. 13 A Marriage Is Announced Isat at a table in the taproom below, gazing into a cup of milk and fighting off waves of nausea. Dougal had taken one look at my face as I came downstairs, supported by the beefy young corporal, and strode purposefully past me, up the stairs to Randall’s room. The floors and doors of the inn were stout and well constructed, but I could still hear the sound of raised voices upstairs. I raised the cup of milk, but my hands were still shaking too badly to drink it. I was gradually recovering from the physical effects of the blow, but not from the shock of it. I knew the man was not my husband, but the resemblance was so strong and my habits so ingrained, that I had been half-inclined to trust him, and had spoken to him as I would have to Frank, expecting civility, if not active sympathy. To have those feelings abruptly turned inside out by his vicious attack was what was making me ill now. Ill, and frightened as well. I had seen his eyes as he crouched next to me on the floor.
santmyer_and_ladies_of_the_club__...And_Ladies_of_the_Club_	top20	2.0	He was in uniform; he had managed to join a French ambulance unit as a stretcher-bearer, so he won’t be in Paris long, to look after her. Mamma cabled him to come home. Imagine Ludwig turning his back on a war! But he’s being very protective of Jennifer so far, taking her to see the American Ambassador to try to get money for her trip home. Her American letter of credit is no good right now, not on the Continent, anyway. Mr. Herrick was a great friend of Papa’s when he was an Ohio politician, and Papa helped him get elected governor. He hadn’t forgotten. He cashed her letter of credit for her, gave her French and English money, and somehow managed to reserve a place for her on a channel ferry. They seem to be running still. She wasn’t at all anxious to go but she had been ordered to leave the next day for London. I suppose she got there. She hasn’t cabled, but Mr. Herrick got word to Mamma: he and Ludwig had seen her off for Cherbourg, Calais being a bit close to the war zone, and the port of entry for the English army. It was closed to ordinary transport. Mr. Herrick gave her a note for Ambassador Page in London.
siddons_the_house_next_door_The_House_Next_Door	bot20	1.0	Ob' viously, he didn’t let me know what had happened be-cause I wasn’t home when it—when she got sick again, and I guess he didn’t have time later. Or didn’t think of it if he was drinking again.” “Virginia must not have been home when it hap-pened either, or Charles would have known something about it,” said Claire, frowning. “He only said he understood Anita was back in the hospital and Buck was staying with her. He didn’t even know they’d gone back to New Jersey. He said neither he nor Virginia knew any more about it than that, and if I’d excuse him, they had a lot of packing and arrangements to tend to. That’s when he told me about the cruise. He sounded so funny that I didn’t want to pursue it. So that’s when I called her cousin. I’m surprised you didn’t think to do that.” “I ... don’t know why I didn’t. I was just so sorry to hear she’d been taken back to the hospital, and I guess I thought they’d call when they needed us.” “Well, how did you know about it? I mean, if nobody saw them go ..
king_the_shining_The_Shining	top20	5.0	She began to drag him again. Danny was beside Jack. One of his hands had fallen off his chest, and Danny replaced it gently, with love. “Are you sure, Mommy?” “Yes. It’s the best thing, Danny.” “It’s like putting him in jail.” “Only for a while.” “Okay, then. Are you sure you can do it?” “Yes.” But it was a near thing, at that. Danny had been cradling his father’s head when they went over the door-sills, but his hands slipped in Jack’s greasy hair as they went into the kitchen. The back of his head struck the tiles, and Jack began to moan and stir. “You got to use smoke,” Jack muttered quickly. “Now run and get me that gascan.” Wendy and Danny exchanged tight, fearful glances. “Help me,” she said in a low voice. For a moment Danny stood as if paralyzed by his father’s face, and then he moved jerkily to her side and helped her hold the left leg. They dragged him across the kitchen floor in a nightmare kind of slow motion, the only sounds the faint, insectile buzz of the fluorescent lights and their own labored breathing.
jones_silver_sparrow_Silver_Sparrow	bot20	2.0	She extended her hand toward my head. “Can I?” My hand made its way to my face again. It smelled like her hair, sweet with oil sheen. I looked up at her hand, which hovered right above my head like I was a dog she wasn’t sure she should pet. “Yes,” I said, softly. “You can touch it.” The silver girl pushed her fingers into my scalp, exploring with her fingernails. “What’s that? Feels like a ridge.” “That’s where my mama sewed in the weft. She’s a cosmetologist.” I started overexplaining, telling her that this new process was technically called “hair integration,” but for short, people called it a weave, and that my mother was one of only twenty hairdressers in the city who knew how to do it. I bragged that it was the next big thing. I jabbered on as her careful hands explored my whole head. Passersby, even the other silver girls, noticed and turned toward each other to talk about us. Old people gave a quick look and swept their eyes away the way they do when they catch people kissing on the MARTA train. It was excruciating, really, imagining the feel of my synthetic hair to her real hands.
160_the_awakening_and_selected_short_stories	top20	2.0	And this time it was Robert Lebrun who presented himself. She attempted to rise; she could not have done so without betraying the agitation which mastered her at sight of him, so she fell back upon the stool, only exclaiming, “Why, Robert!” He came and clasped her hand, seemingly without knowing what he was saying or doing. “Mrs. Pontellier! How do you happen--oh! how well you look! Is Mademoiselle Reisz not here? I never expected to see you.” “When did you come back?” asked Edna in an unsteady voice, wiping her face with her handkerchief. She seemed ill at ease on the piano stool, and he begged her to take the chair by the window. She did so, mechanically, while he seated himself on the stool. “I returned day before yesterday,” he answered, while he leaned his arm on the keys, bringing forth a crash of discordant sound. “Day before yesterday!” she repeated, aloud; and went on thinking to herself, “day before yesterday,” in a sort of an uncomprehending way. She had pictured him seeking her at the very first hour, and he had lived under the same sky since day before yesterday; while only by accident had he stumbled upon her.
finney_invasion_of_the_body_snatchers_Invasion_of_the_Body_Snatchers	bot20	0.03333333333333333	I hope I never again in my life see anything as frightful as those eyes. I could look at them for only a second at a time, then I had to close my own. They were almost, but not quite—not yet—as large as Becky’s. They were not quite the same shape, or precisely the same shade— but getting there. The expression of those eyes, though ... Watch an unconscious person come to, and at first the eyes show only the least dull beginnings of comprehension, the first faint flickers of returning intelligence. That is all that had yet happened to these eyes. The steady awareness, the quiet alertness of Becky Driscoll’s eyes were horribly parodied and diluted here. Yet, washed out a dozen times over as they were, you could nevertheless see, in these blank blue eyes caught in the trembling beam of my light, the first faint hint of what—given time—would become Becky Driscoll’s eyes. I moaned, and bent double, clutching my stomach tight under my folded arms. There was a scar on the left forearm of the thing on the shelf, just above the wrist. Becky had a small smooth bum mark there, and I remembered its shape because it crudely resembled an outline drawing of the South American continent.
butler_adulthood_rites_Adulthood_Rites	bot20	5.0	And this kid might not even live to grow up. Or he might grow up and grow tentacles all over. So what if he looks good now. Doesn’t mean a thing.” “And 111 tell you something else,” Akin’s captor put in. “Our chances, any man’s chances of seeing that kid grow up are rat shit. The worms are going to find him sooner or later, dead or alive. And the village they find him in is fucked.” Someone else agreed. “The only way is to get rid of him fast and get out of the area. Let someone else worry about how to hold him and how not to wind up dead or worse.” Akin went out of the shelter, found a place to relieve himself and another place—a clearing where one of the larger trees had recendy fallen—where the rain fell heavily enough for him to wash himself and to catch enough water to satisfy his thirst. The men did not stop him, but one of them watched him. When he reentered the shelter, wet and glistening, carrying broad, flat wild banana leaves to sleep on, the men all stared at him. “Whatever it is,” one of them said, “it isn’t as Human as we thought.
krantz_scruples_Scruples	bot20	2.0	Take your glasses off and kiss me a whole lot” “Excessive, unrelieved, unrelenting, untidy, unnatural, unprovoked, incessant, constant, permanent unendurable, intolerable strainl” “Silly boy—come here.” “Well, if you’re not I am under considerable strain, and it’s not good for the baby either. He is under strain, so he wakes me up and then I start to worry. He wouldn’t want that to happen, but he can’t help it. Let’s do it.” “Sleep in different beds?” “Never! What a terrible thing to suggest. Dolly, apologize!” “I’m sorry, Lester. What were you talking about? Why did I apologize? I thinkTm drunk, too. How could raspberries make you drunk?” “Let’s—let’s just take a lil’ drive down 606 South Olive Street where the Chief said the envelopes were kept and take a lil’ peek at ’em. Put you out of your strain, get a good night’s sleep for a change—be fresh for tomorrow night If you know you didn’t win, you’ll be relaxed tomorrow, not fair for a poor pregnant fil’ person to have to go through the strain of not knowin’—cruel and inhuman, I say.”
9830_the_beautiful_and_damned	top20	10080.0	And if he had not hanged himself he had certainly come to the end of it. "At least," he concluded feebly, "I'm perfectly willing to be a war correspondent." But so was Gloria. They were both willing--anxious; they assured each other of it. The evening ended on a note of tremendous sentiment, the majesty of leisure, the ill health of Adam Patch, love at any cost. "Anthony!" she called over the banister one afternoon a week later, "there's some one at the door." Anthony, who had been lolling in the hammock on the sun-speckled south porch, strolled around to the front of the house. A foreign car, large and impressive, crouched like an immense and saturnine bug at the foot of the path. A man in a soft pongee suit, with cap to match, hailed him. "Hello there, Patch. Ran over to call on you." It was Bloeckman; as always, infinitesimally improved, of subtler intonation, of more convincing ease. "I'm awfully glad you did." Anthony raised his voice to a vine-covered window: "Glor-i-_a_! We've got a visitor!" "I'm in the tub," wailed Gloria politely.
roth_divergent_Divergent	top20	1.0	“What ...” I fling one of the pages over the railing, pressing my lips together. I should just ask. “What do you think of what she has to say?” He shrugs. “I don’t know. Maybe it’s a good idea to have more than one faction in control of the government. And maybe it would be nice if we had more cars and .. . fresh fruit and . . .” “You do realize there’s no secret warehouse where all that stuff is kept, right?” I ask, my face getting hot. “Yes, I do,” he says. “I just think that comfort and prosperity are not a priority for Abnegation, and maybe they would be if the other factions were involved in our decision making.” “Because giving an Erudite boy a car is more important than giving food to the factionless,” I snap. “Hey now,” says Christina, brushing Will’s shoulder with her fingers. “This is supposed to be a lighthearted session of symbolic document destruction, not a political debate.” I bite back what I was about to say and stare at the stack of paper in my hands. Will and Christina share a lot of idle touches lately. I’ve noticed it. Have they?
parks_getting_mothers_body_Getting_Mother_s_Body	bot20	60.0	“They saying stuff.” We kissed as we drove down the road and then I started laughing cause he was tickling me and getting me undressed and showing me his sample book and driving all at the same time. His left hand on the wheel, his right hand between my legs. Then we pulled off the road. Then we did it. Now we done. “I’ll get you a whole damn carload full of panties, girl,” he says. “Them panties you had on is probably along the side of the road somewhere between here and Lincoln.” He smiles and I smile with him. I remember taking them off. The wind was whipping and musta whipped them out the window while we drove. But that was an hour ago. Now I look down the road, seeing if I can see them. I see somebody down there walking in the dirt and the shimmer from the heat. “I don’t wanna go home without no panties,” I says. “You worry too much,” Snipes says. All the car doors are open and the wind goes through, drying the sweat off the seats. “1 gotta know something,” I says. “Whut?” “The man’s supposed to ask the girl,” I whisper.
macinnes_salzburg_connection_The_Salzburg_Connection	bot20	1.0	You did impress me, Bill. Where did you learn prison-style talk out of the side of your mouth?” “From desperation.” After remembering every signal, every movement, his mind had gone blank and he couldn’t even think of how to move out gracefully. “You did beautifully.” “My excuse was true enough. I really did forget to take our copies of your letter, and they have to be picked up sometime.” Even if hardly so promptly as this. But if Bill was in a hurry, she could understand. She, too, kept remembering Anna Bryant’s face, taut and bloodless, as she urged them to go, go quickly and send Cliff. So we possibly have done what she told us to do, Lynn thought, but I ought to have stayed with her; she is liable to have real hysterics, and that’s one time a woman shouldn’t be alone. Lynn glanced at Bill, decided not to mention her fears. He was fully as troubled as she was. As they crossed the square in silence, she tried a lighter topic. “We left our newspaper behind.” Our quick-study newspaper, giving a tantalizing glimpse of all the concerts and plays we probably won’t have time to go to.
155_the_moonstone	top20	1.0	I wondered in myself which it would be harder to do, if things went on in this manner--to bear Mr. Franklin Blake’s indifference to me, or to jump into the quicksand and end it for ever in that way? “It’s useless to ask me to account for my own conduct, at this time. I try--and I can’t understand it myself. “Why didn’t I stop you, when you avoided me in that cruel manner? Why didn’t I call out, ‘Mr. Franklin, I have got something to say to you; it concerns yourself, and you must, and shall, hear it?’ You were at my mercy--I had got the whip-hand of you, as they say. And better than that, I had the means (if I could only make you trust me) of being useful to you in the future. Of course, I never supposed that you--a gentleman--had stolen the Diamond for the mere pleasure of stealing it. No. Penelope had heard Miss Rachel, and I had heard Mr. Betteredge, talk about your extravagance and your debts. It was plain enough to me that you had taken the Diamond to sell it, or pledge it, and so to get the money of which you stood in need.
michaelides_the_silent_patient_The_Silent_Patient	bot20	60.0	Just to buy time. I kept focusing on the clock. Listening to it tick. And then suddenly it was ten o’clock.... And then ... ten-thirty. And still Gabriel hadn’t come home. ‘“He’s late,’ he said. ‘Maybe he’s not coming.’ “‘He’s coming,’ I said. “‘Well, it’s a good thing I’m here to keep you company.’ “And then the clock struck eleven, and I heard a car outside. The man went to the window and looked out. ‘Perfect timing,’ he said.” What happened next—Alicia said—happened fast. The man grabbed Alicia and swung her chair around, so she faced away from the door. He said he would shoot Gabriel in the head if she spoke one word or made a single sound. Then he disappeared. A moment later the lights fused and everything went dark. In the hallway, the front door opened and closed. “Alicia?” Gabriel called out. There was no reply, and he called her name again. He walked into the living room—and saw her by the fireplace, sitting with her back to him. “Why are you sitting in the dark?” Gabriel asked. No reply.
douglas_the_robe_The_Robe	bot20	1.0	We have seen everything there is for sale— in Cana.” Suddenly Marcellus, who had been tossing camp equipment into a wicker box, straightened and looked Justus squarely in the eyes. “I think I have bought all the homespun I want,” he announced, bluntly. “What I have been learning about this Jesus has made me curious to hear more. I wonder if you will help me meet a few people who knew him— people who might be willing to talk about him.” “That would be difficult,” said Justus, frankly. “Our people have no reasons for feeling that they can talk freely with Romans. They would find it hard to understand why a man of your nation should be making inquiries about Jesus. Perhaps you are not aware that the Romans put him to death. Maybe you do not know that the legionaries—especially in Jerusalem—are on the alert for any signs that the friends of Jesus are organized.” “Do you suspect me of being a spy, Justus?” asked Marcellus, bluntly. “No—I do not think you are a spy. I do not know what you are, Marcellus; but I am confident that you have no evil intent. I shall be willing to tell you some things about Jesus.”
fleming_from_russia_with_love_From_Russia_with_Love	top20	1.0	Should she call him back? No, that was out of the question. He had spoken as he had because he knew, and she knew, that every call, in and out of the building, was listened to or recorded. That was why he had not wasted a word. This was a State matter. With a message of this sort, you got rid of it as quickly as you could, in as few words as possible, and wiped your hands of it. You had got the dreadful card out of your hand. You had passed the Queen of Spades to someone else. Your hands were clean again. The girl put her knuckles up to her open mouth and bit on them, staring at the telephone. What did they want her for? What had she done? Desperately she cast her mind back, scrabbling through the days, the months, the years. Had she made some terrible mistake in her work and they had just discovered it? Had she made some remark against the State, some joke that had been reported back? That was always possible. But which remark? When? If it had been a bad remark, she would have felt a twinge of guilt or fear at the time. Her conscience was clear. Or was it? Suddenly she remembered.
delany_distant_stars_Distant_Stars	bot20	10.0	Go in! Go in, Danny... please! She looked about the sky. Stolid and uncomprehending, Danny went forward. Inside he sat on the hammock, left fist wrapped in his right hand. Fidessa stood, turned, walked, stopped. "What’s the matter? What happened on High Haven?” "We’re leaving." She watched for my reaction. "Tell me what happened.” She put her hands in her pockets, took them out again. "Roger tried to get at Danny.” "What?” We regarded the silent smith. He blinked and smiled. "Roger got crazy after you left.” "Drunk?” "Crazy! He took everybody down to the forge, and they started to break up the place ... He made them stop after a little while. But then he talked about killing Danny. He said that Sam was right. And then he told me he was going to kill me.” "It sounds like a bad joke.” "It wasn’t--” I watched her struggle to find words to tell me what it was. "So you two got scared and left?” "I wasn’t scared then.” Her voice retreated to shortness. She glanced up. "I'm scared now.”
delany_neveryona_Neveryona,_or,_the_Tale_of_Signs_and_Cities	bot20	5.0	She was a greedy creature.' 'I was looking forward to a last mouthful before I went in, yes.' He glanced back, smiling (so Pryn stepped up beside him). 'But slaves grow thirsty too.' 'Would you like some of mine?' A bushy eyebrow rose. He looked at Pryn, at his own mug, at hers again, at his own. 'Eh . . . no. Thank you, no.' He stepped ahead at the door, and pushed back wet hide. Pryn stepped in behind him. She watched him walk through the hall, water dripping and gleaming from the dark embroideries. Making her own way to the counter, she climbed to the stool. The gentleman had stopped to speak to three barbarian workers — and in their own language, too, just as clearly as he had been speaking with Pryn in hers. Ymik knew a few barbarian phrases that he could shout to get the workers to move faster. And Tetya had told her some words you were not supposed to say — which barbarians said all the time. But now, with both that man's hands on his blue-black shoulders, now with his own hand on the shoulder of that one, the gentleman seemed a kind of magnificent little barbarian himself.
brooks_world_war_z_World_War_Z:_An_Oral_History_of_the_Zombie_War	top20	1.0	During the Denver push, there was a tall building where a couple hundred refugees had accidentally been locked in with the infection and were now completely reanimated. Before our guys could storm the entrance, one 1. PT: Physical Training. 2. AIT: Advanced Individual Training. of the Ks had his own idea to run up to the roof of a building across the street and start barking to draw Zack up onto the higher floors. It worked like a dream. The Gs made it up to the roof, saw their prey, made for him, and went spilling over the side. After Denver, Lemming went right into the playbook. Even the infantry started using it when Ks weren’t available. It wasn’t uncommon to see a grunt standing on the roof of a building, calling out to an infested building close by. But the primary and most common mission of any K team was scouting, both SC and LRP. SC is Sweep and Clear, just attached to a regular unit, like conventional warfare. That’s where training really paid off. Not only could they sniff Zack out miles before us, but the sounds they made always told you exactly what to expect. You could tell everything you needed to know by the pitch of the growl, and the frequency of the bark.
seton_katherine_Katherine	bot20	10.0	The crowd, which had been restive, quieted and watched with delight as the two resplendent Plantagenets ran the final course against each other. Here was no blind unruly jousting, but an elegant deed of arms with each fine point of technique observed. The ceremonious bowing of the helmeted heads as the herald’s trumpet sounded, the simultaneous start fron the lines drawn at either end of the lists, the lances held precisely horizontal, the control over the snorting destriers who were always liable to swerve, tie shivering impact of the lances square on the opposing shields and the final neat thrust sidewards of Lancaster’s lance, which dexterously knocked the helmet up and off Lionel’s head, where it dangled by the lacings from the gorget. “Splendid, splendid!” cried the King, proud of his sons. John and Lionel came riding up to their father’s loge and bowed to him while the heralds, once more taking the center of the field, proclaimed that the great tournament in honor of St. George had ended in a draw. The crowd groaned with disappointment. But, continued the heralds, the pri ses w ould be given anyway by lot to night at the Feast of the Garter and the special prize for the knight adjudged to have been most worthy in the tournament would also be presented then. “Lancaster!
steel_zoya_Zoya	bot20	2.0	“Is there anything I can do for you, Alix?” She shook her head, still proud, still austere, and conceal her shock and pain as she listened to what he said. She was being put under house arrest, along with her family and her servants and her children. She wanted not to believe his words, but it was inevitable now. The end had come, and they all had to face it. He explained carefully that anyone who wished to remain with them could, but if they chose to leave, they would not be allowed to return to Tsar-skoe Selo. It was staggering news, and it took all of her strength not to swoon as she listened. “And my husband, General?” “We believe he will be here by morning.” “And will you imprison him?” She felt physically ill as she asked, but she had to know now. She had to know all of it, what they could expect and what they were facing. And after the tales she had heard in the past few days, she supposed she should be grateful that they weren’t all killed, but in the face of what was happening it was difficult to be grateful. “Your husband will be under house arrest here at Tsarskoe Selo.”
2641_a_room_with_a_view	top20	2.0	Very glad to see you, and that you are taking George for a bathe. Very glad to hear that your sister is going to marry. Marriage is a duty. I am sure that she will be happy, for we know Mr. Vyse, too. He has been most kind. He met us by chance in the National Gallery, and arranged everything about this delightful house. Though I hope I have not vexed Sir Harry Otway. I have met so few Liberal landowners, and I was anxious to compare his attitude towards the game laws with the Conservative attitude. Ah, this wind! You do well to bathe. Yours is a glorious country, Honeychurch!” “Not a bit!” mumbled Freddy. “I must--that is to say, I have to--have the pleasure of calling on you later on, my mother says, I hope.” “CALL, my lad? Who taught us that drawing-room twaddle? Call on your grandmother! Listen to the wind among the pines! Yours is a glorious country.” Mr. Beebe came to the rescue. “Mr. Emerson, he will call, I shall call; you or your son will return our calls before ten days have elapsed. I trust that you have realized about the ten days’ interval.
brown_the_lost_symbol_The_Lost_Symbol	top20	1.0	I mention this only because when I asked my office to search for a connection between the Hand of the Mysteries and Peter Solomon, their search returned one link in particular.” She paused, as if to emphasize the importance of her finding. “The Masons.” Langdon exhaled, fighting the impulse to tell Sato the same thing he constantly told his students: "Google" is not a synonym for "research.” In these days of massive, worldwide keyword searches, it seemed everything was linked to everything. The world was becoming one big entangled web of information that was getting denser every day. Langdon maintained a patient tone. “I’m not surprised the Masons appeared in your staff’s search. Masons are a very obvious link between Peter Solomon and any number of esoteric topics.” “Yes,” Sato said, “which is another reason I have been surprised this evening that you have not yet mentioned the Masons. After all, you’ve been talking about secret wisdom protected by an enlightened few. That sounds very Masonic, does it not?” “It does . . . and it also sounds very Rosicrucian, Kabbalistic, Alumbra-dian, and any number of other esoteric groups.” “But Peter Solomon is a Mason—a very powerful Mason, at that.
217_sons_and_lovers	top20	5.0	For the rest, she drudged in the house, which work she would not have minded had not her clean red floor been mucked up immediately by the trampling farm-boots of her brothers. She madly wanted her little brother of four to let her swathe him and stifle him in her love; she went to church reverently, with bowed head, and quivered in anguish from the vulgarity of the other choir-girls and from the common-sounding voice of the curate; she fought with her brothers, whom she considered brutal louts; and she held not her father in too high esteem because he did not carry any mystical ideals cherished in his heart, but only wanted to have as easy a time as he could, and his meals when he was ready for them. She hated her position as swine-girl. She wanted to be considered. She wanted to learn, thinking that if she could read, as Paul said he could read, “Colomba”, or the “Voyage autour de ma Chambre”, the world would have a different face for her and a deepened respect. She could not be princess by wealth or standing. So she was mad to have learning whereon to pride herself. For she was different from other folk, and must not be scooped up among the common fry.
1661_the_adventures_of_sherlock_holmes	top10	3.0	I think, Miss Hunter, that we had better go in without you. Now, Watson, put your shoulder to it, and we shall see whether we cannot make our way in. It was an old rickety door and gave at once before our united strength. Together we rushed into the room. It was empty. There was no furniture save a little pallet bed, a small table, and a basketful of linen. The skylight above was open, and the prisoner gone. "There has been some villainy here," said Holmes; "this beauty has guessed Miss Hunter's intentions and has carried his victim off." "But how?" "Through the skylight. We shall soon see how he managed it." He swung himself up onto the roof. "Ah, yes," he cried, "here's the end of a long light ladder against the eaves. That is how he did it." "But it is impossible," said Miss Hunter; "the ladder was not there when the Rucastles went away." "He has come back and done it. I tell you that he is a clever and dangerous man. I should not be very much surprised if this were he whose step I hear now upon the stair.
tyler_the_accidental_tourist_The_Accidental_Tourist	bot10	60.0	And some who had no close relatives—say one of his readers, a salesman without a family—well, what was done about such people? Was there some kind of potters’ field for unknown travelers? He could lie in only two positions—on his left side or on his back—and switching from one to the other meant waking up, consciously deciding to undertake the ordeal, plotting his strategy. Then he returned to a fretful semiconsciousness. He dreamed he was seated on an airplane next to a woman dressed all in gray, a very narrow, starched, thin-lipped woman, and he tried to hold perfectly still because he sensed she disapproved of movement. It was a rule of hers; he knew that somehow. But he grew more and more uncomfortable, and so he decided to confront her. He said, “Ma’am?” She turned her eyes on him, mild, mournful eyes under finely arched brows. “Miss Macintosh!” he said. He woke in a spasm of pain. He felt as if a tiny, cruel hand had snatched up part of his back and wrung it out. When the waiter brought his breakfast in the morning, the chambermaid came along. She must keep grueling hours, Macon thought. But he was glad to see her.
oates_blonde_Blonde	bot10	100.0	“Marilyn Monroe” he’d taken that day would become the most famous, or infamous, calendar nudes in history. For which the model would earn fifty dollars, and millions of dollars would be earned by others. By men. And the soles of my feet exposed. Behind the tattered Chinese screen, Norma Jeane fumbled to dress quickly. Ninety minutes had passed in a drugged dream. Her head throbbed with pain confused with traffic outside on Hollywood Boulevard, the stink of exhaust. Her breasts ached with a ghostly milk-to-be-sucked. If I’d had a baby with Bucky Glazer. Now I would be safe. She heard Otto talking to someone. He’d made a telephone call, probably. Laughing softly. Now the lights were out, the frayed crimson velvet cloth carelessly folded up and shoved onto a shelf, the used rolls of film ready to be developed. Norma Jeane wanted only to be gone from Otto Ose. Waking from her dreamy trance beneath the blinding lights she’d seen in the photographer’s skull face a gloating satisfaction that had nothing to do with her. She’d heard in his elated voice a happiness that had nothing to do with her. Not humiliated now, baring myself to a man who doesn’t love me. If I’d had a baby.
naipaul_a_house_for_mr_biswas_A_House_for_Mr._Biswas	bot10	10.0	‘Suppose I wanted to go to Port of Spain, and he didn’t. You think we’d quarrel about a thing like that? No. We would sit down and talk it over, and he would say, “All right, let us go.” Or I would say, “All right, we won’t go.” That’s the way we were, you know.’ She had grown almost maudlin, and Mr Biswas was trying to appear solemn while chewing. He chewed slowly and wondered whether he shouldn’t stop altogether; but whenever he stopped eating Mrs Tulsi stopped talking. ‘This house,’ Mrs Tulsi said, blowing her nose, wiping her eyes with her veil and waving a hand in a fatigued way, ‘this house - he built it with his own hands. Those walls aren’t concrete, you know. Did you know that?’ Mr Biswas went on eating. ‘They looked like concrete to you, didn’t they?’ ‘Yes, they looked like concrete.’ ‘It looks like concrete to everybody. But everybody is wrong. Those walls are really made of clay bricks. Clay bricks,’ she repeated, staring at Mr Biswas’s plate and waiting for him to say something. ‘Clay bricks!’ he said.
110_tess_of_the_durbervilles_a_pure_woman	top10	3.0	I don't think so, said Tess coldly. "Well, there's your chance, whether or no; and I'm sure he wears a beautiful diamond ring!" "Yes," said little Abraham, brightly, from the window-bench; "and I seed it! and it did twinkle when he put his hand up to his mistarshers. Mother, why did our grand relation keep on putting his hand up to his mistarshers?" "Hark at that child!" cried Mrs Durbeyfield, with parenthetic admiration. "Perhaps to show his diamond ring," murmured Sir John, dreamily, from his chair. "I'll think it over," said Tess, leaving the room. "Well, she's made a conquest o' the younger branch of us, straight off," continued the matron to her husband, "and she's a fool if she don't follow it up." "I don't quite like my children going away from home," said the haggler. "As the head of the family, the rest ought to come to me." "But do let her go, Jacky," coaxed his poor witless wife. "He's struck wi' her--you can see that. He called her Coz!
stafford_the_collected_stories_of_jean_stafford_The_Collected_Stories_of_Jean_Stafford	bot10	1.0	asked Maisie. “Because he doesn’t like the moon.” Luster was his dog, a golden retriever. They drove away then in the direction of Left Hand Canyon. I suppose eventually I went to sleep.) Forgetting now that Ernie Wharton’s facts were immediate and that, because he had been united with the dead boy in a secret order, his was the right to tell the tale and to lead the speculation—forgetting this, the art students shrilly turned to the girl in Oxford glasses. Had he been strange, they asked her, had he seemed cracked? “He was like everybody else,” she said, “like all pre-meds. You know, a little high-hat the way they all are because they know those six-dollar words.” She did not like to speak ill of the dead, she said, but, frankly, Bernard had been the world’s worst dancer and, as she looked back on it, she thought he had probably been tight. Not that that made any difference, she quickly added, because she was broad-minded, but it might throw some light on his suicide. Maybe he was drunk this morning. It was unlikely, she supposed, that he would have been drinking at eight-thirty in the morning.
730_oliver_twist	top10	1.0	Of course the lady knows that, don't she?' demanded Mr. Blathers. 'Always interrupting, you are, partner! This here Conkey Chickweed, miss, kept a public-house over Battlebridge way, and he had a cellar, where a good many young lords went to see cock-fighting, and badger-drawing, and that; and a wery intellectual manner the sports was conducted in, for I've seen 'em off'en. He warn't one of the family, at that time; and one night he was robbed of three hundred and twenty-seven guineas in a canvas bag, that was stole out of his bedroom in the dead of night, by a tall man with a black patch over his eye, who had concealed himself under the bed, and after committing the robbery, jumped slap out of window: which was only a story high. He was wery quick about it. But Conkey was quick, too; for he fired a blunderbuss arter him, and roused the neighbourhood. They set up a hue-and-cry, directly, and when they came to look about 'em, found that Conkey had hit the robber; for there was traces of blood, all the way to some palings a good distance off; and there they lost 'em.
forna_the_memory_of_love_The_Memory_of_Love	bot10	3153600.0	There were troublemakers among the student fraternity. As it happened I had done well enough over the years to build a house, an ambition I had nurtured for some time. The new house was in the west of the city. I had the good fortune to be able to buy several town lots together and the house boasted a sizeable garden. After years on campus where the grounds were taken care of by a team of workers, Saffia had her own garden again. She set to work terracing the land, planting an orchard towards the rear, lawns and formal beds at the front. As for me, my work at the university kept me occupied. The Dean had been promoted to the position of Vice Chancellor. There were shortages and frequent power cuts. There were strikes and petitions - the young by then so different from my day. They seemed to think we could magic light out of the darkness and were convinced they must find somebody to blame. We had been married for twenty-one years and lived in our new house for four. It doesn’t make me proud to tell you I was elsewhere that day. So it happened that Babagaleh was first to hear the news. This is your first rainy season, so you see now how the rains behave in this part of the world.
garner_monkey_grip_Monkey_Grip	bot10	300.0	What are you up to?’ ‘I’ve just had a huge snort of coke,’ I cheerfully announced. ‘Ooh, you lucky thing! Haven’t got any more, have you?’ ‘No,’ I lied, sitting there in her room with an envelope of it in my back pocket. What’s happening to me? But, as if in revenge for my greed, as I left her house the coke turned around, gave a twist and a wriggle, and fled away, dumping me unceremoniously in a limbo, skew-whiff and desolate. I drifted through the rest of the afternoon in a puzzled dream. And when I came home I decided not to waste another snort, but to wait till my body was clear. I sat down at the table to transfer the coke to an uncrushed wrapper, and idly sniffed up the residue as I worked. How thoughtlessly you can persuade yourself that what you’re doing at any particular moment is not actually getting into dope, or eating, or smoking, or whatever it is you’ve rationally decided not to do; that it’s just a small aberration, or to make sure something is not wasted—or it’s not anything at all because your mind has slipped its moorings, disconnected itself for that moment from your body.
74_the_adventures_of_tom_sawyer	top10	120.0	The family were still at table, but they had finished breakfast. There was no voice of rebuke; but there were averted eyes; there was a silence and an air of solemnity that struck a chill to the culprit's heart. He sat down and tried to seem gay, but it was up-hill work; it roused no smile, no response, and he lapsed into silence and let his heart sink down to the depths. After breakfast his aunt took him aside, and Tom almost brightened in the hope that he was going to be flogged; but it was not so. His aunt wept over him and asked him how he could go and break her old heart so; and finally told him to go on, and ruin himself and bring her gray hairs with sorrow to the grave, for it was no use for her to try any more. This was worse than a thousand whippings, and Tom's heart was sorer now than his body. He cried, he pleaded for forgiveness, promised to reform over and over again, and then received his dismissal, feeling that he had won but an imperfect forgiveness and established but a feeble confidence. He left the presence too miserable to even feel revengeful toward Sid; and so the latter's prompt retreat through the back gate was unnecessary.
541_the_age_of_innocence	top10	1.0	Ellen--I must ask you one thing. "Yes." "I wanted to ask it after I saw him, but I couldn't put it in a letter. It was Riviere who helped you to get away--when you left your husband?" His heart was beating suffocatingly. Would she meet this question with the same composure? "Yes: I owe him a great debt," she answered, without the least tremor in her quiet voice. Her tone was so natural, so almost indifferent, that Archer's turmoil subsided. Once more she had managed, by her sheer simplicity, to make him feel stupidly conventional just when he thought he was flinging convention to the winds. "I think you're the most honest woman I ever met!" he exclaimed. "Oh, no--but probably one of the least fussy," she answered, a smile in her voice. "Call it what you like: you look at things as they are." "Ah--I've had to. I've had to look at the Gorgon." "Well--it hasn't blinded you! You've seen that she's just an old bogey like all the others." "She doesn't blind one; but she dries up one's tears."
munro_lives_of_girls_and_women_Lives_of_Girls_and_Women	bot10	43200.0	Nor would my coarseness ever be translated into their fineness; it was too late, the difference lay too deep for that. But what about Naomi? She had been like me; once she had had an epidemic of warts on her fingers; she had suffered from Athlete’s Foot; we had hidden in the Girls’ Toilet together when we had the curse at the same time and were afraid to do Tumbling—one at a time, in front of the rest of the class—afraid of some slipping or bleeding, and too embarrassed to ask to be excused. What was this masquerade she was going in for now, with her nail polish, her pastel sweater? She was soon great friends with Molly and Carla. Her conversation, when she came over to my house or summoned me to hers, was full of their diets, skin-care routines, hair-shampooing methods, clothes, diaphragms (Molly had been married for a year and Carla was to be married in June). Sometimes Carla came to Naomi’s house when I was there; she and Naomi always talked about washing, either washing their sweaters or washing their underclothes or washing their hair. They would say, “I washed my cardigan!” “Did you? Did you wash it cold or lukewarm?”
158_emma	top10	1.0	“With a great deal of pleasure, sir, at any time,” said Mr. Knightley, laughing, “and I agree with you entirely, that it will be a much better thing. Invite him to dinner, Emma, and help him to the best of the fish and the chicken, but leave him to chuse his own wife. Depend upon it, a man of six or seven-and-twenty can take care of himself.” CHAPTER II Mr. Weston was a native of Highbury, and born of a respectable family, which for the last two or three generations had been rising into gentility and property. He had received a good education, but, on succeeding early in life to a small independence, had become indisposed for any of the more homely pursuits in which his brothers were engaged, and had satisfied an active, cheerful mind and social temper by entering into the militia of his county, then embodied. Captain Weston was a general favourite; and when the chances of his military life had introduced him to Miss Churchill, of a great Yorkshire family, and Miss Churchill fell in love with him, nobody was surprized, except her brother and his wife, who had never seen him, and who were full of pride and importance, which the connexion would offend.
hemon_the_lazarus_project_The_Lazarus_Project	bot10	5.0	In Grand Rapids, Michigan, she reads, Judge Alfred Wolcott of the circuit bench died of apoplexy this afternoon, five minutes after he was stricken. His wife, a devout Christian Scientist, refuses to admit he is dead. Three different physicians have pronounced his life extinct, but Mrs. Wolcott maintains that they are in error. I am running out of life, Olga thinks. What am I going to do? What is there without life? Lazarus used to work in the corner by the window, next to Greg Heller, packing eggs without a word all day. He worked so hard Heller often had to tell him to slow down. Only at the end of the shift would he sometimes jabber in as much English as he knew, mixed with strange foreign words. He never mentioned anarchism, Heller said, except once: Emma Goldman, the anarchist queen, was coming to Chicago to speak, and Lazarus tried to talk Heller into going with him to hear her—which Heller rejected in disgust. “The rich have all the money. I have none. You have none,” Lazarus said, waving his arms, his eyes shining. Heller told him to keep busy and he would earn some. Mr. Eichgreen confirmed that Lazarus was a good worker; he never talked anarchism to him.
day_bared_to_you_Bared_to_You	bot10	5.0	“For me, too.” Reaching over, Gideon caught my hand and lifted it to his lips. “I never imagined I could have this . . . Someone in my life who knows what you do about me. Someone who could talk about my fuck-ups over dinner because they accept me anyway... I’m grateful for you, Eva.” My heart twisted with a sweet pain in my chest. He could say such beautiful things, the perfect things. “I feel the same way about you, ace.” Deeper, maybe, because I loved him. But I didn’t say that aloud. He’d get there someday. I wasn’t going to give up until he was absolutely, irrevocably mine. With his bare feet propped on the coffee table and his computer on his lap, Gideon looked so at home and relaxed that he kept distracting me from my television shows. How did we get here? I asked myself. This extravagantly sexy man and me? “You’re staring,” he murmured, his gaze on his laptop screen. I stuck my tongue out at him. “Is that a sexual suggestion, Miss Tramell?” “How do you see me while staring at whatever you’re working on?” He looked up then and caught my gaze.
bellow_humboldts_gift_Humboldt_s_Gift	bot10	1.0	Cantabile was manifesting these tendencies in Chicago, wildly exalting some human principle—he knew not what. In my own fashion I myself knew not what. Why was it that I enjoyed no relations with anyone of my own mental level? I was attracted instead by these noisy bumptious types. They did something for me. Maybe this was in part a phenomenon of modem capitalist society with its commitment to personal freedom for all, ready to sympathize with and even to subsidize the mortal enemies of the leading class, as Schumpeter says, actively sympathetic with real or faked suffering, ready to accept peculiar character-distortions and burdens. It was true that people felt it gave them moral distinction to be patient with criminals and psychopaths. To understand! We love to understand, to have compassion! And there I was. As for the broad masses, millions of people born poor now had houses and power tools and other appliances and conveniences and they endured the social turbulence, lying low, hanging on to their worldly goods. Their hearts were angry but they put up with the disorders and formed no mobs in the streets. They took alLthe abuse, doggedly waiting it out. No rocking the boat. Apparently I shared in their condition. But I couldn’t see what good it would do me to fire a gun.
mudrooroo_doctor_wooreddys_prescription_Doctor_Wooreddy_s_Prescription_for_Enduring_the_Ending_of_the_World	bot10	360.0	When he arrived there next morning, he found that the savage amazon, Walyer, the pride of his collection, had collapsed. He thought the others took it well as he strode off to see the major. He had found out in the bar last night that the Governor was due in the neighbourhood. In reality, all the Aborigines were in mourning for Walyer who was on the verge of death. Wooreddy was listless with despair; Truger-nanna had cried herself tearless, and Walyer’s men, suddenly finding themselves leaderless and locked up, were completely demoralised. On top of this they felt betrayed and abandoned by the ghost who had told them over and over again that he would protect them like a father. But they had not been abandoned. They had worth to Robinson. He learnt that the Major was with the Governor in the barracks at Royal Park and hurried there to meet him. He handed over his dispatches and complimented the Governor on the successful beginning of his military operation. Arthur handed the reports to his secretary and on hearing that Robinson had captured some Aborigines, including the famous amazon, Walyer, decided to go immediately to the gaol to see them. He completely ignored the hapless Major, who, he thought, should be in the field leading his troops, and ordered horses.
768_wuthering_heights	top10	1.0	Well, Linton,' murmured Catherine, when his corrugated brow relaxed, 'are you glad to see me? Can I do you any good?' 'Why didn't you come before?' he asked. 'You should have come, instead of writing. It tired me dreadfully writing those long letters. I'd far rather have talked to you. Now, I can neither bear to talk, nor anything else. I wonder where Zillah is! Will you' (looking at me) 'step into the kitchen and see?' I had received no thanks for my other service; and being unwilling to run to and fro at his behest, I replied--'Nobody is out there but Joseph.' 'I want to drink,' he exclaimed fretfully, turning away. 'Zillah is constantly gadding off to Gimmerton since papa went: it's miserable! And I'm obliged to come down here--they resolved never to hear me up-stairs.' 'Is your father attentive to you, Master Heathcliff?' I asked, perceiving Catherine to be checked in her friendly advances. 'Attentive? He makes them a little more attentive at least,' he cried. 'The wretches! Do you know, Miss Linton, that brute Hareton laughs at me! I hate him!
120_treasure_island	top10	3.0	And he pinched me the third time with the same air of cleverness. "And when Ben Gunn is wanted, you know where to find him, Jim. Just wheer you found him today. And him that comes is to have a white thing in his hand, and he's to come alone. Oh! And you'll say this: 'Ben Gunn,' says you, 'has reasons of his own.'" "Well," said I, "I believe I understand. You have something to propose, and you wish to see the squire or the doctor, and you're to be found where I found you. Is that all?" "And when? says you," he added. "Why, from about noon observation to about six bells." "Good," said I, "and now may I go?" "You won't forget?" he inquired anxiously. "Precious sight, and reasons of his own, says you. Reasons of his own; that's the mainstay; as between man and man. Well, then"--still holding me--"I reckon you can go, Jim. And, Jim, if you was to see Silver, you wouldn't go for to sell Ben Gunn? Wild horses wouldn't draw it from you?
84_frankenstein_or_the_modern_prometheus	top10	129600.0	I prepared myself for a multitude of reverses; my operations might be incessantly baffled, and at last my work be imperfect, yet when I considered the improvement which every day takes place in science and mechanics, I was encouraged to hope my present attempts would at least lay the foundations of future success. Nor could I consider the magnitude and complexity of my plan as any argument of its impracticability. It was with these feelings that I began the creation of a human being. As the minuteness of the parts formed a great hindrance to my speed, I resolved, contrary to my first intention, to make the being of a gigantic stature, that is to say, about eight feet in height, and proportionably large. After having formed this determination and having spent some months in successfully collecting and arranging my materials, I began. No one can conceive the variety of feelings which bore me onwards, like a hurricane, in the first enthusiasm of success. Life and death appeared to me ideal bounds, which I should first break through, and pour a torrent of light into our dark world. A new species would bless me as its creator and source; many happy and excellent natures would owe their being to me. No father could claim the gratitude of his child so completely as I should deserve theirs.
achebe_things_fall_apart_Things_Fall_Apart	top10	5.0	The young suitor, whose name was Ibe, smiled broadly and said to his father: "Do you hear that?" He then said to the others: "He will never admit that 1 am a good tapper." "He tapped three of my best palm trees to death," said his father, Ukegbu. "That was about five years ago," said Ibe, who had begun to pour out the wine, "before I learned how to tap." He filled the first horn and gave to his father. Then he poured out for the others. Okonkwo brought out his big horn from the goatskin bag, blew into it to remove any dust that might be there, and gave it to Ibe to fill. As the men drank, they talked about everything except the thing for which they had gathered. It was only after the pot had been emptied that the suitor's father cleared his voice and announced the object of their visit. Obierika then presented to him a small bundle of short broomsticks. Ukegbu counted them. "They are thirty?" he asked. Obierika nodded in agreement. 73 "We are at last getting somewhere," Ukegbu said, and then turning to his brother and his son he said: "Let us go out and whisper together."
wendt_pouliuli_Pouliuli	bot10	300.0	Laaumatua didn’t attend but he sent Moaula with instructions to influence the council into going to Filemoni’s house. In front of the council and all Malae-lua, Laaumatua said, Moaula was then to censure his cousin and order him to leave Malaelua. ‘... And, as you know, Filemoni and his aiga are leaving today,’ Laaumatua ended his narrative. ‘Well done! I never knew you had it in you though,’ said Faleasa jokingly. ‘Had what?’ ‘The instinct of the killer!’ laughed Faleasa. ‘I’ve always had it hidden in my burden!’ They planned their next major move and then slept until late afternoon. As they walked back to Malaelua Laaumatua asked Faleasa if he had another pastor in mind. ‘Did he?’ Faleasa replied. Laaumatua nodded. ‘So. Go ahead and get him,’ Faleasa said. Chapter 7 At first the gogo was a silver speck floating lazily in the brilliant sky; then, as Faleasa watched it, his breath propping it up in the still air, it dropped lower and lower until it was a luminous humming of outstretched wings circling above the heads of the trees he was standing under. Once, twice, three times it circled, sleek head and body pinned back, long tail trailing....
li_the_vagrants_The_Vagrants	bot10	3.0	“You want to run away from me now?” the old man said. “You think I’m talking nonsense? Let me tell you: You could learn all the characters in the dictionary, and write the most spectacular articles in the world. You could be more learned than Confucius—do you know who Confucius was? Well, how could one expect you to learn anything from school these days? In any case, you could be as knowledgeable as a scholar, but still you could be more ignorant than an illiterate peasant or a beggar. Do you understand?” Tong shook his head. “What I’m saying is this”—the old man hit his cane on the ground—“you don’t get real intelligence and wisdom from textbooks. As far as I can tell, you may as well run away from your stupid teacher who stuffs your brain with nothing but lard.” Tong smiled in spite of himself. “Now, if you want to be a good and useful human being, help me get this letter to the mailbox.” Tong accepted the letter from the old man and was surprised by its weight. He glanced at the envelope, which bore several stamps. “No peeking!” the old man shouted, and then changed his mind and asked Tong to hand the letter back.
432_the_ambassadors	top10	1.0	He guessed that for five seconds these words were on the point of coming; he heard them as clearly as if they had been spoken; but he presently knew they had just failed--knew it by a glance, quick and fine, from Madame de Vionnet, which told him that she too had felt them in the air, but that the point had luckily not been made in any manner requiring notice. This left her free to reply only to what had been said. "That the Boulevard Malesherbes may be common ground for us offers me the best prospect I see for the pleasure of meeting you again." "Oh I shall come to see you, since you've been so good": and Mrs. Pocock looked her invader well in the eyes. The flush in Sarah's cheeks had by this time settled to a small definite crimson spot that was not without its own bravery; she held her head a good deal up, and it came to Strether that of the two, at this moment, she was the one who most carried out the idea of a Countess. He quite took in, however, that she would really return her visitor's civility: she wouldn't report again at Woollett without at least so much producible history as that in her pocket.
fleming_casino_royale_Casino_Royale	top10	5.0	His mouth was open and he was breathing fast. He was waiting, waiting for Bond’s hand to gesture to the croupier, or else for Bond suddenly to slump backwards in his chair, his face grimacing with a scream. ‘Thus.’ Bond looked over at Vesper and Felix Leiter. They were smiling and talking to each other. The fools. Where was Mathis? Where were those famous men of his? ‘Quatre.’ And the other spectators. This crowd of jabbering idiots. Couldn’t someone see what was happening? The chef de partie, the croupier, the huissier? ‘Cinq.’ The croupier was tidying up the pile of notes. The chefde partie bowed smilingly towards Bond. Directly the stake was in order he would announce: ‘Le jeux est fait’, and the gun would fire whether the gunman had reached ten or not. ‘Six.’ Bond decided. It was a chance. He carefully moved his hands to the edge of the table, gripped it, edged his buttocks right back, feeling the sharp gun-sight grind into his coccyx. ‘Sept.’ The chef de partie turned to Le Chiffre with his eyebrows lifted, waiting for the banker’s nod that he was ready to play. Suddenly Bond heaved backwards with all his strength.
32_herland	top20	60.0	A still day--on the edge of the world, their world. The two of us, gazing out over the far dim forestland below, talking of heaven and earth and human life, and of my land and other lands and what they needed and what I hoped to do for them-- “If you will help me,” I said. She turned to me, with that high, sweet look of hers, and then, as her eyes rested in mine and her hands too--then suddenly there blazed out between us a farther glory, instant, overwhelming--quite beyond any words of mine to tell. Celis was a blue-and-gold-and-rose person; Alma, black-and-white-and-red, a blazing beauty. Ellador was brown: hair dark and soft, like a seal coat; clear brown skin with a healthy red in it; brown eyes--all the way from topaz to black velvet they seemed to range--splendid girls, all of them. They had seen us first of all, far down in the lake below, and flashed the tidings across the land even before our first exploring flight. They had watched our landing, flitted through the forest with us, hidden in that tree and--I shrewdly suspect--giggled on purpose.
2084_the_way_of_all_flesh	top20	0.016666666666666666	Over and above these drawbacks the house had an ill name, by reason of the fact that the wife of the last occupant had hanged herself in it not very many weeks previously. She had set down a bloater before the fire for her husband's tea, and had made him a round of toast. She then left the room as though about to return to it shortly, but instead of doing so she went into the back kitchen and hanged herself without a word. It was this which had kept the house empty so long in spite of its excellent position as a corner shop. The last tenant had left immediately after the inquest, and if the owner had had it done up then people would have got over the tragedy that had been enacted in it, but the combination of bad condition and bad fame had hindered many from taking it, who like Ellen, could see that it had great business capabilities. Almost anything would have sold there, but it happened also that there was no second-hand clothes shop in close proximity so that everything combined in its favour, except its filthy state and its reputation. When I saw it, I thought I would rather die than live in such an awful place--but then I had been living in the Temple for the last five and twenty years.
940_the_last_of_the_mohicans_a_narrative_of_1757	top20	4320.0	The third day from the capture of the fort was drawing to a close, but the business of the narrative must still detain the reader on the shores of the “holy lake.” When last seen, the environs of the works were filled with violence and uproar. They were now possessed by stillness and death. The blood-stained conquerors had departed; and their camp, which had so lately rung with the merry rejoicings of a victorious army, lay a silent and deserted city of huts. The fortress was a smoldering ruin; charred rafters, fragments of exploded artillery, and rent mason-work covering its earthen mounds in confused disorder. A frightful change had also occurred in the season. The sun had hid its warmth behind an impenetrable mass of vapor, and hundreds of human forms, which had blackened beneath the fierce heats of August, were stiffening in their deformity before the blasts of a premature November. The curling and spotless mists, which had been seen sailing above the hills toward the north, were now returning in an interminable dusky sheet, that was urged along by the fury of a tempest. The crowded mirror of the Horican was gone; and, in its place, the green and angry waters lashed the shores, as if indignantly casting back its impurities to the polluted strand.
carter_new_england_white_New_England_White	bot20	2.0	“Unless you wanted to meet me where there was zero possibility of being overheard.” “Although they deny it, I’ve always suspected that the Secret Service has the whole White House wired for sound.” “Probably not the balcony, though.” Mary smiled. Her lips, painted bright red, would otherwise have been nearly invisible, despite her protuberant mouth. “Yes. Probably not the balcony.” She stubbed out the second cigarette. Down below, uniformed guards on patrol looked up at them suspiciously. The writer waved, so Julia did, too, on the off chance that waving helped them decide whom not to shoot. “And, yes, you’re right, when I heard you were going to be here I sort of had to persuade Mr. Pulitzer Prize in there to bring me as his date instead of somebody else.” A glance at the door. “He needed a lot of persuading.” “Am I supposed to be flattered?” “No. You’re supposed to stop attacking me and listen for a minute. I’m joking. Okay, I’m not joking. But, seriously, please, Julia. Just give me a minute. Kellen came to me, not the other way around. That’s what I want you to understand.
macinnes_double_image_The_Double_Image	bot20	1.0	“We’re leaving tomorrow for Washington. Say, you got this champagne iced!” “Four hours, courtesy of the barman at my hotel.” And a nice-sized tip. “Then it’s just right for drinking. Sue, get some glasses— sure, these will do, over on the table.” Craig noticed that a little dining table, places for three, flowers, candles and all, had been set up near the window of the sitting-room. “We thought we’d have supper here, easier for talking, less waste of time,” George said. “And we are having a few friends drop in here afterwards. Just some men who have been stationed at one time or another in Moscow.” “They belong to the I-Was-There Club,” Sue said cheerfully. She had quite recovered. She noticed the expression on her brother’s face. “I’m sorry, John; we had to see them tonight— but you know how it is. There really is quite a bond between men who have lived through the same tensions—” “A bond of curiosity,” George said drily. “They want to hear the latest inside gossip and informed guesses.” “Veterans of Foreign Peace?” Craig suggested.
smith_strange_fruit_Strange_Fruit	bot20	5.0	Sobbing. Somebody crying. You’re not crying . . . you . . . No light in the library. Just sounds. Young girl sounds. Laura. Never’d seen Laura cry. Everybody crying . . . crazy . . . everybody . . . better . . . Slowly he went up the stain, stopped on each step, feeling for the next with his foot. Slow and dull, as if he had heard strange bad news from a far country. TUT DROVE slowly home. Already late for dinner and with calls to make, he let the car move as slowly as it would through sand ruts; his mind moving with it along the ruts of right and wrong. You can’t change right and wrong because somebody you love stands in the middle of the road— Then what you do, run over herf But if something’s wrong and you do it to save Grace, then where are you—where’s your ethics—where’s your medical— Where’s little Gracet Let somebody else— Sure, let Aunt Mag with her dirt—let some crooked abortionist in Atlanta—let anybody do the sinning but— Tut straightened the car in the road. If a nigger had raped her it’d be different—it’d be different, but— What’s going to happen to Grace?
naylor_women_of_brewster_place_The_Women_of_Brewster_Place	bot20	5.0	He had simply touched her forehead and went to call her mother to come and change her nightgown. It was her mother, and not him, who later told her that he had neglected his farm and insisted on sitting by her bed every day—all day—while the life was burning and sweating out of her pores. It became a legend in those parts, and even her mother never knew how he had gotten the white doctor from town to make that long trip to the house for her. Sam never mentioned it, and no one dared ask. But this silence was different. It was compressed tightly in a vacuum that was so vast that her spirit grew weary attempting to cross it, and so it would return to her to rest feverishly against her sorrowing heart. “Mama, I can’t stand much more of this,” she whispered miserably to her mother, as they were washing the dinner dishes. Her father had stonily finished his meal and gone out to his rocker, where he would sit reading his Bible until late in the night. “Don’t worry, baby,” Fannie sighed, “he’ll come round. This here thing done hurt him, that’s all.” “Oh, Mama, I’m so ashamed.” “Ain’t nothing to be shamed of.
krantz_mistrals_daughter_Mistral_s_Daughter	bot20	600.0	The next day, after breakfast, as they drove back to La Tourrello Teddy was more confused than she had ever been in her life. That moment, that brief moment when Julien Mistral had held her chin in his hand, was embedded in her mind as if she’d been shot be- tween the eyes and the bullet had lodged there. He hadn’t said another word to her—bedlam had taken over—but she thought about nothing else since it had happened. It was as if her life were a film and when Julien Mistral had touched her the director had yelled "Cut.” Until she saw him again the screen must remain blank, waiting. As soon as Teddy saw Mistral frowning impatiently at the invasion of their troop into his studio, she knew that he had been waiting for her as eagerly as she had been waiting for him. There could be no doubt about such passionate certainty. She walked over to the easel, holding her breath. He put out his hand and she took it and their hands clasped each other tightly without moving for a long second until they both remembered that they were supposed to be giving the conventional handshake greeting of France. "Bonjour, Mademoiselle Lunel. Did you sleep well?” "Bonjour, Monsieur Mistral. I didn’t sleep.”
west_the_thinking_reed_The_Thinking_Reed	bot20	0.05	Marc was wise in his head and his body, but because of this exemption from criticism, this ability to evade the consequences of any action, he was without discipline, he was without appropriate reverence for reality. He might get a little drunk tonight, he might say foolish and dangerous things. There was no safety where there were riches. Isabelle rolled over on her face and threw her pillows about, wishing she were altering the structure of the world. She reminded herself that the poor probably suffered as many spiritual inconveniences as the rich, but found that no consolation. If one is tuberculous it helps one’s case not at all that certain other people are diabetic. Indeed, it added to her apprehension, by proving how grossly mistaken most human beings are regarding the cardinal facts of their existence, that she knew perfectly well how vast a proportion of the public would have asked nothing better than to be one of the very same group of rich people which were convincing her of the unwholesomeness of possessions. They would think it must be heaven on earth to be at Le Touquet for Easter, with the famous Lauristons, the Madame Renart whose photograph was always in the papers, the great lover Ferdy Monck, the beautiful Princess Couranoff, THE THINKING REED the fabulously wealthy Alexander Pillans.
james_an_unsuitable_job_for_a_woman_An_Unsuitable_Job_for_a_Woman	bot20	3.0	And do you really want the truth to come out in open court? Do you want everyone to know how your son died and who killed him? Is that what Mark himself would want?” “No. Mark never believed in punishment. Tell me what I have to do.” “We’ve got to work quickly and plan carefully. We have to trust each other and we have to be intelligent.” “We are intelligent. What must we do?” Cordelia took out her handkerchief and dropped it over the gun, took the weapon from Miss Learning and placed it on the desk. She grasped the woman’s thin wrist and pushed her protesting hand against Sir Ronald’s palm, pulling against the instinctive recoil, forcing the stiff but living fingers against the soft unresisting hand of the dead. “There may be firing residue. I don’t really know much about that, but the police may test for it. Now wash your hands and get me a pair of thin gloves. Quickly.” She went without a word. Left alone, Cordelia looked down at the dead scientist. He had fallen with his chin against the desk top and his arms swinging loosely at his sides, an awkward, uncomfortable-looking pose which gave him the appearance of peering malevolently over his desk.
145_middlemarch	top20	1.0	You acted as I should have expected you to act," said Dorothea, her face brightening and her head becoming a little more erect on its beautiful stem. "I did not believe that you would let any circumstance of my birth create a prejudice in you against me, though it was sure to do so in others," said Will, shaking his head backward in his old way, and looking with a grave appeal into her eyes. "If it were a new hardship it would be a new reason for me to cling to you," said Dorothea, fervidly. "Nothing could have changed me but--" her heart was swelling, and it was difficult to go on; she made a great effort over herself to say in a low tremulous voice, "but thinking that you were different--not so good as I had believed you to be." "You are sure to believe me better than I am in everything but one," said Will, giving way to his own feeling in the evidence of hers. "I mean, in my truth to you. When I thought you doubted of that, I didn't care about anything that was left. I thought it was all over with me, and there was nothing to try for--only things to endure."
hammett_the_maltese_falcon_The_Maltese_Falcon	top20	1.0	You know I’m not all bad, don’t you? You can see that, can’t you? Then can’t you trust me a little? Oh, I’m so alone and afraid, and I’ve got nobody to help me if you won’t help me. I know I’ve no right to ask you to trust me if I won’t trust you. I do trust you, but I can’t tell you. I can’t tell you now. Later I will, when I can. I’m afraid, Mr. Spade. I’m afraid of trusting you. I don’t mean that. I do trust you, but—I trusted Floyd and—I’ve nobody else, nobody else, Mr. Spade. You can help me. You’ve said you can help me. If I hadn’t believed you could save me I would have run away today instead of sending for you. If I thought anybody else could save me would I be down on my knees like this? I know this isn’t fair of me. But be generous, Mr. Spade, don’t ask me to be fair. You’re strong, you’re resourceful, you’re brave. You can spare me some of that strength and resourcefulness and courage, surely. Help me, Mr. Spade.
morrison_tar_baby_Tar_Baby	bot20	1.0	That it was a man. "Let’s change the subject,” he said. His voice was soft, a little sad, it seemed to her, and he gazed out into the water as he spoke. Fake, she thought. He’s faking remorse and he thinks I am impressed by it. "I hate killers,” she said. “All killers. Babies. They don’t understand anything but they want everybody to understand them. Lotta nerve, don’t you think?” “Killing doesn’t take nerve. It takes no nerve, no nerves at all.” “I don’t feel sorry for you, you know. I think you ought to be in jail. So you can stop looking pitifully into the sea and thinking how terrible life’s been to you.” He glanced at her, briefly, as though she were a distraction from the major work of looking at the sea. “Sorry,” he murmured. “I didn’t mean to. I wasn’t thinking about me. I was thinking about the person I killed. And that is pitiful.” “Then why’d you do it?” “There is no why. The reason doesn’t hold. I mean it wasn’t a good reason; it was a mistake.”
morrison_god_help_the_child_God_Help_the_Child	bot20	780.0	No slaveowner could have done it better. Booker put away his notebook. Dusk enveloped him and he let the warm air calm him while he looked forward to the dawn. Bride woke in sunshine from a dreamless sleep—deeper than drunkenness, deeper than any she had known. Now having slept so many hours she felt more than rested and free of tension; she felt strong. She didn’t get up right away; instead she remained in Booker’s bed, eyes closed, enjoying a fresh vitality and blazing clarity. Having confessed Lula Ann’s sins she felt newly born. No longer forced to relive, no, outlive the disdain of her mother and the abandonment of her father. Pulling herself away from reverie she sat up and saw Booker drinking coffee at the pull-down table. He looked pensive rather than hostile. So she joined him, picked a strip of bacon from his plate and ate it. Then she bit into his toast. “Want more?” Booker asked. “No. No thanks.” “Coffee? Juice?” “Well, coffee, maybe.” bure. Bride rubbed her eyelids trying to replay the moments before she fell asleep. The swelling over Booker’s left temple helped. “You got me over to your bed with one working arm?”
60_the_scarlet_pimpernel	top20	1.0	. enough, I think, to thwart their projected COUP for the moment, it would only be for the moment, and still leaves me in ignorance of the identity of the Scarlet Pimpernel. “La! my friend,” she said, with the same assumed flippancy of manner, “then you are where you were before, aren't you? and you can let me enjoy the last strophe of the ARIA. Faith!” she added, ostentatiously smothering an imaginary yawn, “had you not spoken about my brother . . .” “I am coming to him now, citoyenne. Among the papers there was a letter to Sir Andrew Ffoulkes, written by your brother, St. Just.” “Well? And?” “That letter shows him to be not only in sympathy with the enemies of France, but actually a helper, if not a member, of the League of the Scarlet Pimpernel.” The blow had been struck at last. All along, Marguerite had been expecting it; she would not show fear, she was determined to seem unconcerned, flippant even. She wished, when the shock came, to be prepared for it, to have all her wits about her--those wits which had been nicknamed the keenest in Europe. Even now she did not flinch.
brown_inferno_Inferno	top20	1.0	The difference is that now, with Zobrist’s breakthroughs in germ-line genetic engineering, we’re learning how to create inheritable immunizations, those that would affect the recipient at the core germ-line level—making all subsequent generations immune to that disease.” Langdon looked startled. “So the human species would essentially undergo an evolution that makes it immune to typhoid, for example?” "It’s more of an assisted evolution,” Sinskey corrected. “Normally, the evolutionary process—whether it be a lungfish developing feet or an ape developing opposable thumbs—takes millennia to occur. Now we can make radical genetic adaptations in a single generation. Proponents of the technology consider it the ultimate expression of Darwinian 'survival of the fittest’—humans becoming a species that learns to improve its own evolutionary process.” “Sounds more like playing God,” Langdon replied. “I agree wholeheartedly,” Sinskey said. “Zobrist, however, like many other Transhumanists, argued strongly that it is mankind’s evolutionary obligation to use all the powers at our disposal—germ-line genetic mutation, for one—to improve as a species. The problem is that our genetic makeup is like a house of cards—each piece connected to and supported by countless others—often in ways we don’t understand.
stone_the_agony_and_the_ecstasy_The_Agony_and_the_Ecstasy	top20	5.0	He stood before the Pope’s wooden chair feeling as though he were a corpse in the dead room of Santo Spirito and a dissector had just chiseled off his skull, lifted out his brain, and let it slip to the floor. He half slid to the comer of a bench, sat staring blindly at the whitewashed wall before him. “Many in our hierarchy feel that you have blasphemed; they are confirmed by an article written by Aretino of Venice . . .” “A blackmailer!” “. . . a friend of Titian, of Charles V, Benvenuto Cellini, the late Francis I of France, Jacopo Sansovino. . . . Here is one of the copies passing from hand to hand in Rome. I’m convinced the Council of Trent has also studied it.” Michelangelo took the paper from the Pope, began to read: Is it possible that you can have represented in the sacred temple of God, above the altar of His Son, in the greatest Chapel in the world, where Cardinals and Bishops and the Vicar of Christ, with Catholic ceremonial and sacred ritual, confess, contemplate and adore the body and blood of Jesus ... so lofty a subject, with angels and saints without a remnant of modesty and denuded of all celestial ornament! He jerked his head up abruptly.
mcguire_beautiful_disaster_Beautiful_Disaster	top20	15.0	Wide-eyed, I searched for Travis again. He desperately pointed me out to Shepley. “Get her! Shep! Get Abby!” he said, still trying to push through the crowd. Brady pulled him back into the circle and punched him again. “You're fucking hot, you know that?” Ethan said. I closed my eyes when I felt his mouth on my neck. Anger welled up within me and I pushed him again. "I said get OFF!” I yelled, ramming my knee into his groin. He doubled over, one hand automatically flying to the source of the pain, the other still gripping my shirt, refusing to let go. "You bitch!” he cried. In the next moment, I was free. Shepley’s eyes were wild, staring into Ethan’s as he gripped him by the collar of his shirt. He held Ethan against the wall while he nailed him with his fist repeatedly in the face, stopping only when the blood poured from Ethan’s mouth and nose. Shepley pulled me to the stairs, shoving anyone who stood in his path. He helped me through an open window, and then down a fire escape, catching me when I leapt the few feet to the ground. "You okay, Abby?
walker_the_color_purple_The_Color_Purple	top20	360.0	And then she haul off and kiss me on the mouth. * m * Um, she say, like she surprise. I kiss her back, say, um, too. Us kiss and kiss till us can’t hardly kiss no more. Then us touch each other. I don’t know nothing bout it, I say to Shug. I don’t know much, she say. Then I feels something real soft and wet on my breast, feel like one of my little lost babies mouth. Way after while, I act like a little lost baby too. Dear God, Grady and Mr._______come staggering in round daybreak. Me and Shug sound asleep. Her back to me, my arms round her waist. What it like? Little like sleeping with mama, only I can’t hardly remember ever sleeping with her. Little like sleeping with Nettie, only sleeping with Nettie never feel this good. It warm and cushiony, and I feel Shug’s big tits sorta flop over my arms like suds. It feel like heaven is what it feel like, not like sleeping with Mr.____at all. Wake up Sugar, I say. They back. And Shug roll over, hug me, and git out of the bed. She stagger into the other room and fall on the bed with Grady.
ishiguro_the_remains_of_the_day_The_Remains_of_the_Day	top20	120.0	Though Harry here won't have the satisfaction of witnessing my humiliation.' There was laughter, and another exchange of good nights before I was at last allowed to ascend to the sanctuary of this room. I trust I need hardly underline the extent of the discomfort I suffered tonight on account of the unfortunate misunderstanding concerning my person. I can only say now that in all honesty I fail to see how I might reasonably have prevented the situation developing as it did; for by the stage I had become aware of what was occurring, things had gone so far I could not have enlightened these people without creating much embarrassment all round. In any case, regrettable as the whole business was, I do not see that any real harm has been done. I will, after all, take my leave of these people in the morning and presumably never encounter them again. There seems little point in dwelling on the matter. However, the unfortunate misunderstanding aside. there are perhaps one or two other aspects to this evening's events which warrant a few moments' thought - if only because otherwise they may come to niggle one throughout the coming days. For instance, there is the matter of Mr Harry Smith's pronouncements on the nature of 'dignity'. There is surely little in his statements that merits serious consideration.
thompson_the_killer_inside_me_The_Killer_Inside_Me	bot20	11520.0	Schizophrenia, paranoid type. Acute, recurrent, advanced. Incurable. It was written, you might say, about— But I reckon you know, don’t you? I was in jail eight days, but no one questioned me and they didn’t pull any more stunts like that voice recording. I kind of looked for them to do the last because they couldn’t be positive about that piece of evidence they had — about my reaction to it, that is. They weren’t certain that it would make me put the finger on myself. And even if they had been certain, I knew they’d a lot rather I cracked up and confessed of my own accord. If I did that they could probably send me to the chair. The other way—if they used their evidence—they couldn’t. But I reckon they weren’t set up right at the jail for any more stunts or maybe they couldn’t get ahold of the equipment they needed. At any rate, they didn’t pull any more. And on the eighth day, around eleven o’clock at night, they transferred me to the insane asylum. They put me in a pretty good room—better’n any I’d seen the time I’d had to take a poor guy there years before—and left me alone.
doctorow_ragtime_Ragtime	top20	240.0	The policeman looked at the Chief, who was grinning at his discomfiture, so that the issue for him was now his own authority. He said to Coalhouse I'm placing you under arrest. You'll come with me in the wagon. Early that evening the telephone rang at Broadview Avenue. The caller was Coalhouse and after quickly explaining that he was at Police Headquarters and why, he asked Father if he would consider putting up bail so that he could get to the city and not miss work that evening. It is to Father's credit that he responded at once, holding back his questions until there was the leisure to have them answered. He called for a cab and went down to the station house and there wrote a cheque for the amount, which was fifty dollars. But as he reported the incident to Mother he was put off because Coalhouse Walker was barely civil in his gratitude and rushed off to the train station saying only he'd make good the sum. The next evening the household experienced the oddness of a visit by Coalhouse Walker that was not on a Sunday. He sat in the parlor with his arms folded and told the story in detail. There was no aggrieved tone in his voice, he recited calmly and objectively, as if he were describing something that had happened to someone else.
mckinney_whetstone_trading_dreams_at_midnight_Trading_Dreams_at_Midnight	bot20	10.0	More out of habit than the desire to know him more, Neena asked Cliff for a card. He reached beneath his coat into his breast pocket. “You haven’t been denied access because of your race or gender lately, have you?” he asked, trying to make a joke. “Not tonight, but the night is young,” she said as she fingered the card, and then slipped it into her purse heavy with the weight of the dead—dead cell phone, dead credit cards, dead checkbook. She smiled at Cliff, thanked Bow Peep for the music, then hurried off. She was still posttraumatic from her encounter with Tito and for a second she thought that she saw him in her peripheral vision. Told herself that she was being silly as she tried to lose herself in the crush of the after-work foot traffic, looking around for a pay phone to try again to reach Tish. She was on Broad Street in front of the Ritz-Carlton that used to be a bank. She approached the coated Ritz-Carlton doorman, slipped under the oversized umbrella he held, and smiled her gushy smile, and when he smiled back and said, Ma’am, good evening, she went into a story of having just left her.cell phone in a friend’s car.
1327_elizabeth_and_her_german_garden	top20	5760.0	In the eye of the law we are all sinners, and every man is held to be guilty until he has proved that he is innocent. Minora has seen so much of the babies that, after vainly trying to get out of their way for several days, she thought it better to resign herself, and make the best of it by regarding them as copy, and using them to fill a chapter in her book. So she took to dogging their footsteps wherever they went, attended their uprisings and their lyings down, engaged them, if she could, in intelligent conversation, went with them into the garden to study their ways when they were sleighing, drawn by a big dog, and generally made their lives a burden to them. This went on for three days, and then she settled down to write the result with the Man of Wrath’s typewriter, borrowed whenever her notes for any chapter have reached the state of ripeness necessary for the process she describes as “throwing into form.” She writes everything with a typewriter, even her private letters. “Don’t forget to put in something about a mother’s knee,” said Irais; “you can’t write effectively about children without that.” “Oh, of course I shall mention that,” replied Minora.
27_far_from_the_madding_crowd	top20	60.0	The rapidity of her glide into this position was that of a kingfisher -- its noiselessness that of a hawk. Gabriel's eyes had scarcely been able to follow her. The tall lank pony seemed used to such doings, and ambled along unconcerned. Thus she passed under the level boughs. The performer seemed quite at home anywhere between a horse's head and its tail, and the necessity for this abnormal attitude having ceased with the passage of the plantation, she began to adopt another, even more obviously convenient than the first. She had no side-saddle, and it was very apparent that a firm seat upon the smooth leather beneath her was un- attainable sideways. Springing to her accustomed perpendicular like a bowed sapling, and satisfying her, self that nobody was in sight, she seated herself in the manner demanded by the saddle, though hardly expected of the woman, and trotted off in the direction of Tewnell Mill. Oak was amused, perhaps a little astonished, and hanging up the hat in his hut, went again among his ewes. An hour passed, the girl returned, properly seated now, with a bag of bran in front of her. On nearing the cattle-shed she was met by a boy bringing a milking-pail, who held the reins of the pony whilst she slid off.
huxley_brave_new_world_Brave_New_World	top20	1.0	“But people never are alone now,” said Mustapha Mond. “We make them hate solitude; and we arrange their lives so that it’s almost impossible for them ever to have it.” The Savage nodded gloomily. At Malpais he had suffered because diey had shut him out from the communal activities of the pueblo, in civilized London he was suffering because he could never escape from those communal activities, never be quietly alone. “Do you remember that bit in King LearP” said the Savage at last. “ ‘The gods are just and of our pleasant vices make instruments to plague us; the dark and vicious place where thee he got cost him his eyes,’ and Edmund answers— you remember, he’s wounded, he’s dying—‘Thou hast spoken right; ’tis true. The wheel has come full circle; I am here.’ What about that now? Doesn’t there seem to be a God managing things, punishing, rewarding?” “Well, does there?” questioned the Controller in his turn. “You can indulge in any number of pleasant vices with a freemartin and run no risks of having your eyes put out by your son’s mistress. ‘The wheel has come frill circle; I am here.’ But where would Edmund be nowadays?
davenport_the_constant_image_The_Constant_Image	bot20	5.0	Harriet started to rise, but she 168 hesitated. Then she sank back into her chair and said, “Signora, may I ask you something? Would you prefer—shall I promise you—?” she could not speak. Carlo’s mother thought for a time. “I ought to make you promise me,” she said slowly. “The sooner you two are parted the better, now. I ought to let you promise me not to see him again while you are here.” She looked at Harriet gravely. “After you leave you will not see him again.” Harriet kept her eyes fixed on Signora Nora’s solemn face. “It would be beyond my courage,” said Carlo’s mother, “to ask you not to see him while you are still here. I could not bring myself to punish both of you so much.” If I weep now, Harriet knew, I shall not be able to stop for hours. She held herself stiff, crossing the room with Signora Nora to the door. Carlo’s mother did not kiss her in farewell as a more sentimental woman might have done; they stood for a moment, their hands clasped; then Harriet started blindly down the stairs. Carlo was there, pacing the floor, when she came in.
rowling_harry_potter_and_the_sorcerers_stone_Harry_Potter_and_the_Sorcerer_s_Stone	top10	10.0	On the opposite side of the chamber was a heavy wooden door. “Do you think they’ll attack us if we cross the room?” said Ron. “Probably,” said Harry. “They don’t look very vicious, but I suppose if they all swooped down at once . . . well, there’s no other choice . . . I’ll run.” He took a deep breath, covered his face with his arms, and sprinted across the room. He expected to feel sharp beaks and claws tearing at him any second, but nothing happened. He reached the door untouched. He pulled the handle, but it was locked. The other two followed him. They tugged and heaved at the door, but it wouldn’t budge, not even when Hermione tried her Alohomora charm. “Now what?” said Ron. “These birds. . . they can’t be here just for decoration,” said Hermione. They watched the birds soaring overhead, glittering — glittering “They’re not birds!” Harry said suddenly. “They’re keys\ Winged keys — look carefully. So that must mean . . .” he looked around * H!z9 * #• * the chamber while the other two squinted up at the flock of keys. . . yes — look!
174_the_picture_of_dorian_gray	top10	5.0	I had forgotten that. What sort of boy is he? If he is like his mother, he must be a good-looking chap." "He is very good-looking," assented Lord Henry. "I hope he will fall into proper hands," continued the old man. "He should have a pot of money waiting for him if Kelso did the right thing by him. His mother had money, too. All the Selby property came to her, through her grandfather. Her grandfather hated Kelso, thought him a mean dog. He was, too. Came to Madrid once when I was there. Egad, I was ashamed of him. The Queen used to ask me about the English noble who was always quarrelling with the cabmen about their fares. They made quite a story of it. I didn't dare show my face at Court for a month. I hope he treated his grandson better than he did the jarvies." "I don't know," answered Lord Henry. "I fancy that the boy will be well off. He is not of age yet. He has Selby, I know. He told me so. And ... his mother was very beautiful?" "Margaret Devereux was one of the loveliest creatures I ever saw, Harry.
hoover_it_ends_with_us_It_Ends_with_Us	bot10	60.0	Marshall already said he’d help me carry them down to my apartment, so Allysa helps me throw everything inside trash bags. I hold them open while she picks everything up from the floor. I’m almost thirty weeks pregnant now, so she doesn’t get the easier job of holding open the trash. We have everything bagged up and Marshall is on his second trip down to my apartment when I open Allysa’s front door, prepared to drag a trash bag full of gifts to the elevator. What I’m not prepared for is Ryle, who is standing on the other side of the door looking back at me. We both look equally as shocked to see each other, considering we haven’t spoken since our fight three months ago. This encounter was bound to happen, though. I can’t be best friends with my husband’s sister and live in the same building as him without eventually running into him. I’m sure he knew I was having the shower today since his mother flew in for it, but he still looks a little surprised when he sees all the stuff behind me. It makes me wonder if him showing up just as I’m leaving is a coincidence or a suitable convenience. He looks down at the trash bag I’m holding and he takes it from my hands.
3268_the_mysteries_of_udolpho	top10	1.0	Yes, mademoiselle, he himself, though he made me promise not to tell; but how could one help, when one heard him ill spoken of? Ah! dear young lady, you may well weep, if you have behaved unkindly to him, for a more tender heart than his never young gentleman had. He found me out in my distress, when you was too far off to help me; and M. Quesnel refused to do so, and bade me go to service again--Alas! I was too old for that!--The Chevalier found me, and bought me this cottage, and gave me money to furnish it, and bade me seek out another poor woman to live with me; and he ordered his brother's steward to pay me, every quarter, that which has supported me in comfort. Think then, mademoiselle, whether I have not reason to speak well of the Chevalier. And there are others, who could have afforded it better than he: and I am afraid he has hurt himself by his generosity, for quarter day is gone by long since, and no money for me! But do not weep so, mademoiselle: you are not sorry surely to hear of the poor Chevalier's goodness?' 'Sorry!' said Emily, and wept the more. '
james_minty_alley_Minty_Alley	bot10	5256000.0	* This is between us, eh! ’ he said, and winked knowingly. ‘ As you say,’ said Haynes. ‘ Honour bright?’ ‘ You can depend on me.’ Benoit had not gone five minutes when there was a knock at the door. Mrs. Rouse, thought Haynes, and it was. ‘ Come in, madam,’ he said, and offered her a chair. ‘ No, Mr. Haynes. I am not for long.’ The difference between her appearance today and before when she had led Haynes into that very room made him realise more than imagination could what she had gone through. Then she was a stout housewife, slightly care-worn, but cheerful, hopeful of the future if even things were not as bright as she wished. Today she was a defeated woman — in her eyes a hunted look which she no longer took the trouble to disguise, sustained merely by the necessity to keep the wheels of her business going. And Haynes felt deeply sorry for her; and felt, too, that by talking and laughing with Benoit he was doing Mrs. Rouse a great wrong; and was aware that it was stupid of him to feel that way; but could never entirely rid himself of the feeling whenever he stood face to face with Mrs. Rouse.
figiel_where_we_once_belonged_Where_We_Once_Belonged	bot10	52560000.0	‘That girl has my heart, Agalelei. That girl is my heart.’ Siniva’s body is dead. Siniva’s agaga is dead too. Siniva’s agaga exists no more—not even metaphysically. Rotting inside the coffin-box is her body and her agaga... rotting with siapo. No more...she is no more. She is gone...gone to Salefe'e...gone to Salefe'e where suicide souls die... The village of Malaefou does not weep and the village of Malaefou does not mourn. It continues. It continues only with hymn singing and prayers after the conch shell curfew, evening meal, choir practice. Big Time Wrestling, Charlie’s Angels, Six Alillion Ddlar Alan___It continues as if Siniva never existed, as if she was never a part of Malaefou...the Malaefou she loved so dearly. So dearly that it pained her to see it drowning slowly in what she called Darkness, for that is how she defined Malaefou— and the whole of Samoa—by reversing everying. ‘We are not living in Lightness,’ she would say. ‘We are not. Lightness is dead. Lightness died that first day in 1830 when the breakers of the sky entered these shores, forcing us all to forget. . .to forget.. .to burn our gods.. .to kill our gods.. .to
habila_oil_on_water_Oil_on_Water	bot10	300.0	Clearly he didn’t remember me. I hid my disappointment, and reminded myself it had been five years since that day at Bar Beach, and five years since I made my phone call to him. I wanted to compare views with Zaq, to see if he thought we were in any danger from the kidnappers, but he kept his eyes on the water, appearing at times to be sleeping, his face lowered into his bulky life jacket. He looked queasy, already seasick. Looking at him—the curled gray tufts in his hair, the thick midsection resting in his lap, a testament to his love affair with the bottle—I found it hard to believe that this was once the most famous reporter in Lagos, and probably in all of Nigeria. We headed south. I turned and looked back at the receding waterfront and the swath of white foamy furrow following in the boat’s wake, curving when we curved, a soothing and mesmerizing sight that for a moment took my mind off whatever awaited us at our rendezvous. Soon we were out of the open water and into the narrow channels that were like valleys bordered on both sides by dense palm plants or sometimes by unexpected cliff faces. Here the going became slow, and after a few hours the city lay far away behind us.
ford_independence_day_Independence_Day	bot10	5.0	My back’s already sweaty through my shirt. “And how’s your brother?” “Weird. But okay.” Maintaining her belly-down, she rotates her head around on its slender stem, some routine from dance class or gymnastics, though an unmistakable signal: she is Paul’s burn amiga\ the two of them are closer than the two of us; this all could’ve been different with better parents, but isn’t; do not fail to notice it. “Is your mom okay too?” Clarissa stops rotating her head and wrinkles her nose as though I’d announced an unsavory subject, then rolls over on her back and stares skyward. “She’s much worse,” she says, and looks unconvincingly worried. “Worse than what?” “Than you!” She rounds her eyes upward in mock surprise. “She and Charley had a howler this week. And they had one last week too. And one the week before.” “Howlers” mean big disputes, not embarrassing verbal miscues. “Hmmmm, hmm, hmm,” she says, meaning most of what she knows is being retained silently. I of course can’t quiz her on this subject—a cardinal rule once divorce has become the governing institution—though I wish I knew more.
33_the_scarlet_letter	top10	5.0	I have thought of death, said she--"have wished for it--would even have prayed for it, were it fit that such as I should pray for anything. Yet, if death be in this cup, I bid thee think again, ere thou beholdest me quaff it. See! it is even now at my lips." "Drink, then," replied he, still with the same cold composure. "Dost thou know me so little, Hester Prynne? Are my purposes wont to be so shallow? Even if I imagine a scheme of vengeance, what could I do better for my object than to let thee live--than to give thee medicines against all harm and peril of life--so that this burning shame may still blaze upon thy bosom?" As he spoke, he laid his long fore-finger on the scarlet letter, which forthwith seemed to scorch into Hester's breast, as if it had been red hot. He noticed her involuntary gesture, and smiled. "Live, therefore, and bear about thy doom with thee, in the eyes of men and women--in the eyes of him whom thou didst call thy husband--in the eyes of yonder child! And, that thou mayest live, take off this draught."
4217_a_portrait_of_the_artist_as_a_young_man	top10	240.0	She had passed through the dusk. And therefore the air was silent save for one soft hiss that fell. And therefore the tongues about him had ceased their babble. Darkness was falling. Darkness falls from the air. A trembling joy, lambent as a faint light, played like a fairy host around him. But why? Her passage through the darkening air or the verse with its black vowels and its opening sound, rich and lutelike? He walked away slowly towards the deeper shadows at the end of the colonnade, beating the stone softly with his stick to hide his revery from the students whom he had left: and allowed his mind to summon back to itself the age of Dowland and Byrd and Nash. Eyes, opening from the darkness of desire, eyes that dimmed the breaking east. What was their languid grace but the softness of chambering? And what was their shimmer but the shimmer of the scum that mantled the cesspool of the court of a slobbering Stuart. And he tasted in the language of memory ambered wines, dying fallings of sweet airs, the proud pavan, and saw with the eyes of memory kind gentlewomen in Covent Garden wooing from their balconies with sucking mouths and the pox-fouled wenches of the taverns and young wives that, gaily yielding to their ravishers, clipped and clipped again.
anand_coolie_Coolie	bot10	5.0	‘These schoolboys don’t learn to apply mathematics, they only learn to do sums. Don’t let him come anywhere near me or I shall kill him.’ Prabha kept silent and made towards the account books. Munoo stood waiting in suspense, not knowing whether to go near the platform. There was a panic in Ganpat’s soul. He knew that his little game of lying and suppressing the truth about the accounts was played out. He tried, however, to distract his partner’s attention from the money question. ‘Why should that bastard be treated any better than the others?’ ‘He is not treated any better,’ said Prabha softly, and began to unfold the account books. The hour of decision had come for Ganpat. But he still wanted to avert it. ‘He raised all the trouble this afternoon,’ Ganpat said, ‘by giving jam to that bitch.’ ‘Don’t fall to abusing people,’ said Prabha, a little sternly. ‘You know I have had to apologize to those people for your rudeness already. I sent them the jam through this boy. So it is neither their fault nor his. And 1 did it because I wanted to be on good terms with them, as we have not acknowledged the pro-note.’
martin_a_song_of_ice_and_fire_A_Game_of_Thrones	top10	5.0	He cocked his oversized head to one side and looked Jon over with his mismatched eyes. "I am Tyrion Lannister." "I know," Jon said. He rose. Standing, he was taller than the dwarf. It made him feel strange. "You're Ned Stark's bastard, aren't you?" Jon felt a coldness pass right through him. He pressed his lips together and said nothing. "Did I offend you?" Lannister said. "Sorry. Dwarfs don't have to be tactful. Generations of capering fools in motley have won me the right to dress badly and say any damn thing that comes into my head." He grinned. "You are the bastard, though." “Lord Eddard Stark is my father," Jon admitted stiffly. Lannister studied his face. "Yes," he said. "I can see it. You have more of the north in you than your brothers." "Half brothers," fon corrected. He was pleased by the dwarf's comment, but he tried not to let it show. "Let me give you some counsel, bastard," Lannister said. "Never forget what you are, for surely the world will not. Make it your strength. Then it can never be your weakness.
card_enders_game_Ender_s_Game	top10	60.0	A square formation of tightly-packed bodies in front, making a wall. Behind it, a cylinder, six boys in circumference and two boys deep, their limbs outstretched and frozen so they couldn’t possibly be holding on to each other. Yet they held together as tightly as if they had been tied—which, in fact, they were. From inside the formation. Dragon Army was firing with deadly accuracy, forcing Griffins and Tigers to stay tightly packed on their stars. “The back of that sucker is open,” said Bee. “As soon as they get between the stars, we can get around behind—” “Don’t talk about it, do it!” said Momoe. Then he took his own advice and ordered his boys to launch against the wall and rebound out behind the Dragon formation. In the chaos of their takeoff, while Griffin Army held tight to their stars, the Dragon formation abruptly changed. Both the cylinder and the front wall split in two, as boys inside it pushed off; almost at once, the formations also reversed direction, heading back toward the Dragon gate. Most of the Griffins fired at the formations and the boys moving backward with them; and the Tigers took the survivors of Dragon Army from behind. But there was something wrong.
hurston_their_eyes_were_watching_god_Their_Eyes_Were_Watching_God	top10	60.0	Janie turned from the door without answering, and stood still in the middle of the floor without knowing it. She turned wrongside out just standing there and feeling. When the throbbing calmed a little she gave Logan’s speech a hard thought and placed it beside other things she had seen and heard. When she had finished with that she dumped the dough on the skillet and smoothed it over with her hand. She wasn’t even angry. Logan was accusing her of her mamma, her grandmama and her feelings, and she couldn’t do a thing about any of it. The sow-belly in the pan needed turning. She flipped it over and shoved it back. A little cold water in the coffee pot to settle it. Turned the hoe-cake with a plate and then made a little laugh. What was she losing so much time for? A feeling of sudden newness and change came over her. Janie hurried out of the front gate and turned south. Even if Joe was not there waiting for her, the change was bound to do her good. The morning road air was like a new dress. That made her feel the apron tied around her waist. She untied it and flung it on a low bush beside the road and walked on, picking flowers and making a bouquet.
grau_the_keepers_of_the_house_The_Keepers_of_the_House	bot10	720.0	I don’t suppose those rooms’ll be opened now, until Abigail’s children come to getting married.” I reckon so,” he said shortly. She leered at him impishly, and said: "Willie, you are jealous.” "Annie,” he said, "you are a silly old woman.” She sat grinning at him, not hearing, until he thought he would like to smash something down on her head. Just as he was about to, she got up and poured him a whiskey, and brought it to him, taking one for herself. Sitting in the old chairs, in the old house, scrubbed unnaturally dean now, and empty of the people who had sheltered in it, they drank to each other. "Luck!” William Howland toasted his sister. "The future, Willie!” And again there was that faint ghost of a wink. "Annie,” he said, "go home.” "In the morning, Willie.” She did. And he was left alone, except for Ramona rattling pots in the kitchen or muttering her way through the rooms, flipping a feather duster at the edges of the furniture. The house was no more empty than it had been with Abigail at college. But it felt emptier.
233_sister_carrie_a_novel	top10	10.0	Carrie looked out through the window into the busy street. There it was, the admirable, great city, so fine when you are not poor. An elegant coach, with a prancing pair of bays, passed by, carrying in its upholstered depths a young lady. “What will you have if you go back?” asked Drouet. There was no subtle undercurrent to the question. He imagined that she would have nothing at all of the things he thought worth while. Carrie sat still, looking out. She was wondering what she could do. They would be expecting her to go home this week. Drouet turned to the subject of the clothes she was going to buy. “Why not get yourself a nice little jacket? You've got to have it. I'll loan you the money. You needn't worry about taking it. You can get yourself a nice room by yourself. I won't hurt you.” Carrie saw the drift, but could not express her thoughts. She felt more than ever the helplessness of her case. “If I could only get something to do,” she said. “Maybe you can,” went on Drouet, “if you stay here. You can't if you go away. They won't let you stay out there.
171_charlotte_temple	bot10	10.0	“But sure you cannot refuse to protect my innocent infant: it partakes not of its mother’s guilt. Oh my father, oh beloved mother, now do I feel the anguish I inflicted on your hearts recoiling with double force upon my own. “If my child should be a girl (which heaven forbid) tell her the unhappy fate of her mother, and teach her to avoid my errors; if a boy, teach him to lament my miseries, but tell him not who inflicted them, lest in wishing to revenge his mother’s injuries, he should wound the peace of his father. “And now, dear friends of my soul, kind guardians of my infancy, farewell. I feel I never more must hope to see you; the anguish of my heart strikes at the strings of life, and in a short time I shall be at rest. Oh could I but receive your blessing and forgiveness before I died, it would smooth my passage to the peaceful grave, and be a blessed foretaste of a happy eternity. I beseech you, curse me not, my adored parents, but let a tear of pity and pardon fall to the memory of your lost “CHARLOTTE.” CHAPTER XXIII. A MAN MAY SMILE, AND SMILE, AND BE A VILLAIN.
45_anne_of_green_gables	top10	30.0	Anne, for goodness sake smile a little. You know Elaine ‘lay as though she smiled.’ That’s better. Now push the flat off.” The flat was accordingly pushed off, scraping roughly over an old embedded stake in the process. Diana and Jane and Ruby only waited long enough to see it caught in the current and headed for the bridge before scampering up through the woods, across the road, and down to the lower headland where, as Lancelot and Guinevere and the King, they were to be in readiness to receive the lily maid. For a few minutes Anne, drifting slowly down, enjoyed the romance of her situation to the full. Then something happened not at all romantic. The flat began to leak. In a very few moments it was necessary for Elaine to scramble to her feet, pick up her cloth of gold coverlet and pall of blackest samite and gaze blankly at a big crack in the bottom of her barge through which the water was literally pouring. That sharp stake at the landing had torn off the strip of batting nailed on the flat. Anne did not know this, but it did not take her long to realize that she was in a dangerous plight. At this rate the flat would fill and sink long before it could drift to the lower headland.
momaday_house_made_of_dawn_House_Made_of_Dawn	bot10	120.0	There were some others over there, a lot of them. We just forgot about that window, that’s all. It was pretty cold in here when I came in, and I took off that wet shirt and turned the radiator on. I was afraid the furnace wasn’t on, but pretty soon the pipes began knocking and there was a little heat coming out. I put my shirt over the radiator, and pretty soon you could really smell the wool. It got almost dry, and I was afraid it was going to get burned, so I put it on again. It was all warm, and it really felt good. I thought about eating something. Milly brought some groceries up here yesterday; she’s always doing that, and it comes out of her own pocket, too. We put some cheese and crackers and a couple of candy bars in that sack he had. There’s quite a bit left, I guess, some bread and some cans of chili and stuff. But I wasn’t very hungry, and I had that bottle of wine. Now that he’s gone, I don’t know if Milly’s going to come around anymore. I guess she will. It got pretty hot in here after a while, and I had to turn the heat off.
powell_a_small_gathering_of_bones_A_Small_Gathering_of_Bones	bot10	14400.0	End of April 1978 i Them release Ian from out the hospital not long after, saying him need plenty rest, lots of fresh air, no more cigarette smoking and haul and pulling of the body. Hardly a day pass when Dale didn't go to see him up at Spauldings General. Standing with the nurses and doctors, him watch as them wring hands and shake heads, narrow eyes fold over perplexed at the nature of the illness. The nurse lady Dale pull one side didn't have much to say. No, she didn't see any particular puncture hole, so it can't be asthma or any kind of lung abscess. But X-ray results will come out next week. She can't understand herself what cause the pain in the chest and shoulder area. What exactly him spitting up in such abundance. Maybe pneumonia, but them still drawing blood and testing. Bill did bring Ian home the morning along with all the get-well bouquets and store-wrap chocolate. It was pouring rain the evening Nevin and Dale drive over to see him. All along Red Hills Road, cars, buses, six-wheel trailer trucks back-up behind one another, tyres slicing through thick, heavy mud. Road block, the news trickle down from the plain clothes police man directing traffic.
1023_bleak_house	top10	2628000.0	I was the happiest of the happy. It was at this time that my guardian joined us and asked Ada when she would come home. "Both houses are your home, my dear," said he, "but the older Bleak House claims priority. When you and my boy are strong enough to do it, come and take possession of your home." Ada called him "her dearest cousin, John." But he said, no, it must be guardian now. He was her guardian henceforth, and the boy's; and he had an old association with the name. So she called him guardian, and has called him guardian ever since. The children know him by no other name. I say the children; I have two little daughters. It is difficult to believe that Charley (round-eyed still, and not at all grammatical) is married to a miller in our neighbourhood; yet so it is; and even now, looking up from my desk as I write early in the morning at my summer window, I see the very mill beginning to go round. I hope the miller will not spoil Charley; but he is very fond of her, and Charley is rather vain of such a match, for he is well to do and was in great request.
351_of_human_bondage	top10	5.0	I suppose she 'adn't any trouble with a man, 'ad she? You know what I mean, Paris and all that. She might 'ave done it so as not to disgrace herself. Philip felt himself reddening and cursed his weakness. Price's keen little eyes seemed to suspect him of an intrigue. "I believe your sister to have been perfectly virtuous," he answered acidly. "She killed herself because she was starving." "Well, it's very 'ard on her family, Mr. Carey. She only 'ad to write to me. I wouldn't have let my sister want." Philip had found the brother's address only by reading the letter in which he refused a loan; but he shrugged his shoulders: there was no use in recrimination. He hated the little man and wanted to have done with him as soon as possible. Albert Price also wished to get through the necessary business quickly so that he could get back to London. They went to the tiny room in which poor Fanny had lived. Albert Price looked at the pictures and the furniture. "I don't pretend to know much about art," he said. "I suppose these pictures would fetch something, would they?" "Nothing," said Philip.
2005_piccadilly_jim	bot10	10.0	As to the rest of the appearance of this remarkable woman, her nose was stubby and aggressive, and her mouth had the coldly forbidding look of the closed door of a subway express when you have just missed the train. It bade you keep your distance on pain of injury. Mrs. Pett, though herself a strong woman, was conscious of a curious weakness as she looked at a female of the species so much deadlier than any male whom she had ever encountered: and came near feeling a half-pity for the unhappy wretches on whom this dynamic maiden was to be unleashed. She hardly knew how to open the conversation. Miss Trimble, however, was equal to the occasion. She always preferred to open conversations herself. Her lips parted, and words flew out as if shot from a machine-gun. As far as Mrs. Pett could observe, she considered it unnecessary to part her teeth, preferring to speak with them clenched. This gave an additional touch of menace to her speech. "Dafternoon," said Miss Trimble, and Mrs. Pett backed convulsively into the padded recesses of her chair, feeling as if somebody had thrown a brick at her. "Good afternoon," she said faintly. "Gladda meecher, siz Pett. Mr. Sturge semme up. Said y'ad job f'r me.
johnston_shadows_on_our_skin_Shadows_on_our_Skin	bot10	10.0	‘Oh, I know.’ She smiled at him. ‘It’s very short. I like it. I’d like more of it.’ ‘That’s the way it came into my mind.’ ‘It’s nice. A sort of picture really.’ I ‘It’s a present for you.’ He blushed and turned quickly to look out of the window. ‘I... mean ... I’ll write it down and give it to you .. . if... well, you know.’ [‘I would like that very much, Joe. No one has ever given me such a lovely present before.’ ‘Ah, go on.’ The top of a double-decker bus is a beautiful place to be. You rock rather than roll along, getting a giraffe’s-eye view into other people’s lives and over the straggling hedges that normally hide the countryside from sight. At the checkpoint before the border a soldier clattered up the stairs, his gun crooked into his elbow. Kathleen opened the shopping bag and held it out towards him. He rummaged. ‘Ta love.’ He looked at Joe and grinned. ‘Got any dangerous weapons on you, mate?’ Joe shook his head. ‘Lost your tongue?’ ‘No.’
lengle_a_wrinkle_in_time_A_Wrinkle_in_Time	top20	5.0	Meg would turn white with fury when people looked at him and clucked, shaking their heads sadly. “Don’t worry about Charles Wallace, Meg,” her father had once told her. Meg remembered it very clearly because it was shortly before he went away. “There’s nothing the matter with his mind. He just does things in his own way arid in his own time.” “I don’t want him to grow up to be dumb like me,” Meg had said. “Oh, my darling, you’re not dumb,” her father answered. “You’re like Charles Wallace. Your development has to go at its own pace. It just doesn’t happen to be the usual pace.” “How do you know?” Meg had demanded. “How do you know I’m not dumb? Isn’t it just because you love me?” “I love you, but that’s not what tells me. Mother and I’ve given you a number of tests, you know.” Yes, that was true. Meg had realized that some of the “games” her parents played with her were tests of some kind, and that there had been more for her and Charles Wallace than for the twins. “IQ tests, you mean?”
grisham_the_partner_The_Partner	bot20	1051200.0	He was unabashedly ambitious, and through the ranks of upper managers it was well known that he wanted the top job. To him, life in Biloxi was a cruel joke, a pit stop from the fast lane orchestrated by his enemies within the company. He detested contracting with the government, detested the red tape and bureaucrats and arrogance from the Pentagon. He hated the snail’s pace with which the submarines were built. In 1988, he asked to be transferred, and was denied. A year later, the rumors of serious cost overruns on the Expedition project surfaced. Construction came to a halt as government auditors and Pentagon brass descended on New Coastal Shipyards. Benny was on the hot seat, and the end was near. As a defense contractor, Platt & Rockland had a rich history of cost overruns, overbilling, and false claims. It was a way of doing business, and when discovered, the company typically fired everybody near the controversy and negotiated with the Pentagon for a small repayment. Benny went to a local attorney, Charles Bogan, the senior partner in a small firm which included a young partner named Patrick Lanigan. Bogan’s cousin was a U.S. Senator from Mississippi. The Senator was a rabid hawk who chaired the subcommittee on military appropriations, and was dearly loved by the armed services.
6593_history_of_tom_jones_a_foundling	top20	40.0	And at last gave him a little horse to make him amends; again repeating his sorrow for what had past. Tom's guilt now flew in his face more than any severity could make it. He could more easily bear the lashes of Thwackum, than the generosity of Allworthy. The tears burst from his eyes, and he fell upon his knees, crying, “Oh, sir, you are too good to me. Indeed you are. Indeed I don't deserve it.” And at that very instant, from the fulness of his heart, had almost betrayed the secret; but the good genius of the gamekeeper suggested to him what might be the consequence to the poor fellow, and this consideration sealed his lips. Thwackum did all he could to persuade Allworthy from showing any compassion or kindness to the boy, saying, “He had persisted in an untruth;” and gave some hints, that a second whipping might probably bring the matter to light. But Mr Allworthy absolutely refused to consent to the experiment. He said, the boy had suffered enough already for concealing the truth, even if he was guilty, seeing that he could have no motive but a mistaken point of honour for so doing. “Honour!” cryed Thwackum, with some warmth, “mere stubbornness and obstinacy!
atwood_the_handmaids_tale_The_Handmaid_s_Tale	top20	10.0	I was just dizzy. I was just standing here and things went dark. It must have been the strain, she said, of yesterday and all. Takes it out of you. She meant the Birth, and I said it did. By this time I was sitting in the chair, and she was kneeling on the floor, picking up the pieces of broken glass and egg, gathering them onto the tray. She blotted some of the orange juice with the paper napkin. I’ll have to bring a cloth, she said. They’ll want to know why the extra eggs. Unless you could do without. She looked up at me sideways, slyly, and I saw that it would be better if we could both pretend I’d eaten my breakfast after all. If she said she’d found me lying on the floor, there would be too many questions. She’d have to account for the broken glass in any case; but Rita would get surly if she had to cook a second breakfast. I’ll do without, I said. I’m not that hungry. This was good, it fit in with the dizziness. But I could manage the toast, I said. I didn’t want to go without breakfast altogether. It’s been on the floor, she said.
271_black_beauty	top20	5.0	“He’ll never get over it,” said Jerry, “at least not for my work, so the farrier said this morning. He says he may do for carting, and that sort of work. It has put me out very much. Carting, indeed! I’ve seen what horses come to at that work round London. I only wish all the drunkards could be put in a lunatic asylum instead of being allowed to run foul of sober people. If they would break their own bones, and smash their own carts, and lame their own horses, that would be their own affair, and we might let them alone, but it seems to me that the innocent always suffer; and then they talk about compensation! You can’t make compensation; there’s all the trouble, and vexation, and loss of time, besides losing a good horse that’s like an old friend--it’s nonsense talking of compensation! If there’s one devil that I should like to see in the bottomless pit more than another, it’s the drink devil.” “I say, Jerry,” said the governor, “you are treading pretty hard on my toes, you know; I’m not so good as you are, more shame to me; I wish I was.”
butler_parable_of_the_talents_Parable_of_the_Talents	bot20	43200.0	We aren’t cold because our “teachers” don’t want to be cold. They build a big fire in the school’s fireplace once a week. And so for a few hours on Sundays, we are warm, dry, and almost comfortable in our rows on the floor. We’re hungry, but we know we’ll soon be fed. We’re in a drowsy, passive state. Without the rest we get on Sundays, several more of us would be dead. I’m sure of that. Nevertheless, we’re being preached at while we’re in that drowsy, passive state. I doze sometimes, though we’re lashed if we’re caught sleeping. I sit up, lean against a wall, and I let myself doze. I didn’t realize it, but the two female Faircloths, it seems, had begun to listen. Worse, they had begun to believe, to be frightened, to be converted. Or perhaps not. Perhaps they had other motives. We’re always being called upon to testify to give public thanks for all the kindness and generosity that God has shown us in spite of our unworthiness. And we must confess that unworthiness and make a public repentance and a public appeal for God’s mercy. We have each been required to do this many times.
pitts_freeman_Freeman	bot20	10.0	She makes his name a question. It feels as if she is trying out a word in some exotic new language. And then: “Why?” There is a tenderness in Honey’s smile. “For you,” she says. “For me?” It is the most absurd thing she has ever heard. She tries to laugh, but it comes out tears. She has trouble swallowing the idea down. She has never thought of herself as a woman someone would come searching for. “What you gon’ do?” asks Honey. “What should I do?” asks Tilda. “Go to him.” “I can’t do that.” “Why not?” “Marse Jim would kill me if I tried to get away from him. I saw him do it to two others.” Honey looks at her. “You just tried to kill yourself,” she says softly, “few weeks ago.” It is the first time they have spoken of it since that day. “That’s different,” Tilda says. Honey sighs. “All I know is, they’s a man out there lookin’ for you. You asked me once if anybody was lookin’ for me, and I told you I couldn’t feature it.
jones_leaving_atlanta_Leaving_Atlanta	bot20	525600.0	“Brother!” She races toward you in saddle oxfords. When she sees your parents she will greet each of them with the same unchecked glee. Y)u give her a candy necklace and an Astro Pop. She cannot help being good. Although you don’t hold Sister’s hand as you walk to the bus stop, you hover protectively near. A parental mandate recently issued requires that you actually wrap your fingers around hers to thwart child-nappers. "Vbu understand the sentiment behind the decree but you are too well aware of the flaws in its logic. You’d have assumed that your parents would have noticed by now that nearly all of the bodies found in Atlanta’s woods, creeks, and fields are male. Someone should be assigned to hold your hand. Nevertheless, you keep an eye on Sister. Last spring, she came close to being flattened by a dilapidated Impala as she darted into the street to retrieve a runaway dodge ball in a burst of near-fatal altruism. You are in sight of the bus stop when you become aware of the regular thump of footsteps on cold red clay. The earth absorbs the sound but you feel the tremors through the thin soles of your loafers. Sister, looking for her reflection in a lollipop, doesn’t notice. You take her hand.
grisham_the_testament_The_Testament	bot20	2880.0	“I assume the will is somewhat controversial,” the Judge said. “It’s wicked.” His Honor actually smiled. TEN BEFORE HIS most recent crash, Nate had lived in an aging condo in Georgetown, one he’d leased after his last divorce. But it was gone now, a victim of the bankruptcy. So, literally, there was no place for Nate to spend his first night of freedom. As usual, Josh had carefully planned the release. He arrived at Walnut Hill on the appointed day with a duffel bag filled with new and neatly pressed J. Crew shorts and shirts for the trip south. He had the passport and the visa, plenty of cash, lots of directions and tickets, a game plan. Even a first-aid kit. Nate never had the chance to be anxious. He said good-bye to a few members of the staff, but most were busy elsewhere because they avoided departures. He walked proudly through the front door after 140 days of wonderful sobriety; clean, tanned, fit, down 17 pounds to 174, a weight he hadn’t known in twenty years. Josh drove, and for the first five minutes nothing was said. The snow blanketed the pastures, but thinned quickly as they left the Blue Ridge. It was December 22.
hawkins_chicago_hustle_Chicago_Hustle	bot20	5.0	If he hit at her too far away from her job she would feel threatened by a delay. If he approached her too close to her job and she was a priggy type, she might be terribly offended for appearances’ sake, at the idea of a strange dude stopping her on the street. For the hundreth time, he thought, too bad it’s got to be sisters, but that’s what the program calls for. He appraised her body as he closed in. Beautiful liT brown skinned sister, ass stuck out like it had a shelf under it, nice legs too, and a pretty face. Yeahhh ... He suaved himself up to her left shoulder and with a languid motion presented her his card, stopping her in her tracks as he instantly began to rap. This was a delicate section of the game too. He knew, from past experiences, that he had to give her enough time to read the card but not enough time to think about it. “Good afternoon. Miss’’... nothing too flirty ... “my name is Phillip Dobson, Regional Sales Representative for Astro Cookware Products. The card I’ve just handed you can be used for a discount on any Astro product.Now then, at this point, may I ask whether or not you’re married?”
welsh_trainspotting_Trainspotting	top20	5.0	Sick Boy bought a roond ay drinks, makin a total meal ay it, ostentatiously waving his money aboot. — BILLY! LAGER? MRS RENTON ... EH CATHY! WHAT’S THAT? GIN N BITTER LEMON? he shouted back at the comer table fae the bar. Ah realised thit Begbie, now involved in a conspiratorial tale wi an ugly, box-heided wanker, the type who ye avoid like the plague, hud slipped Sick Boy the dough tae git the bevvy up. Billy wis arguing wi Sharon oan the phone. — Ma fuckin brar gits oaf fi gittin sent doon! Nickin books, assaultin a member ay the shoap’s staff, possession ay drugs. The spawny cunt gits a result. Even ma Ma’s here! Ah’m entitled tae celebrate, fuck sake . . . He must have been desperate if he wis reduced tae playin the brotherly love caird. —Thair’s Planet Ay The Apes, Sick Boy whispered tae us, noddin ower at a guy whae drank in the pub. He looked like an extra fi that film. As always, he wis pished n tryin tae find company. Unfortunately, his eye caught mine, n he came ower tae us. — Interested in hoarses? he asks. — Naw. :— Interested in fitba? he slurs. — Naw.
ellison_invisible_man_Invisible_Man	top20	10.0	I said. “You will be, in time, by the committee— Sacrifice is necessary now—” “But shouldn’t sacrifice be made willingly by those who know what they are doing? My people don’t understand why they’re being sacrificed. They don’t even know they’re being sacrificed—at least not by us . . .” But what, my mind went on, if they’re as willing to be duped by the Brotherhood as by Rinehart? I sat up at the thought and there must have been an odd expression on my face, for Hambro, who was resting his elbows upon the arms of his chair and touching his fingertips together, raised his eyebrows as though expecting me to continue. Then he said, “The disciplined members will understand.” I pulled Tarp’s leg chain from my pocket and slipped it over my knuckles. He didn’t notice. “Don’t you realize that we have only a handful of disciplined members left? Today the funeral brought out hundreds who’ll drop away as soon as they see we’re not following through. And now we’re being attacked on the streets. Can’t you understand? Other groups are circulating petitions, Ras is calling for violence. The committee is mistaken if they think this is going to die down.”
mosley_rls_dream_RL_s_Dream	bot20	120.0	There was the blood from his ankle, once, from a sharp rock hidden in the moss of Millwater Pond. There were the hilly nests of fire ants that would swarm over grasshoppers and tired dragonflies. Cold water was good. Blood, scabbing over and sluggish, was good. Even the fire-orange specks on the shiny green eye of the dragonfly were good. The wind through the stiff yellow grass wheezed like an old woman. Hidden in there were all kinds of birds that were named for their colors and sizes and personalities. They sang and warbled and croaked. Crows came from the devil but they couldn't catch him. They called his name in crow words but the little boy just laughed. His dreams were full of colors and smells and music. There, under the blanket of Inez's sweet smoke, he ran and played while she sat back—too old to have fun anymore. And then the kiss. Warm and moist. It was only when she thought that he was asleep that Inez kissed Atwater. The loud groan of a timber and the snick of the door told the boy that Inez had gone back to the big bed with Ruby. He could open his eyes, but now he was too tired to move. The young boy fell asleep but the old man came awake.
caldwell_captains_and_kings_Captains_and_the_Kings	bot20	5.0	The sharpness of the remark caught Rory without an immediate response. Then he sighed, dropped his head, looked mournful. “Mama,” he said, “is absolutely terrified of my father. She is in very poor health. An annoyed word from him would crush her, perhaps destroy her.” He saw his mother’s short obese body and engorged complexion and snapping eyes, and visualized her as a drooping flower. It almost made him laugh out loud. “But she has told me secretly of her will. I—I receive—though I pray that her health will improve and that God will spare her for many years to her devoted family—three-quarters of her fortune. Some”—and now Rory let his wide blue eyes wander to a musing distance—“fifteen million dollars.” “Fifteen million dollars,” whispered Miss Chisholm. She calculated interest. “It is invested, secure?” “Good as gold,” said Rory. He resolutely would not look at Marjorie and the black mischief in her eyes. “Mama doesn’t believe in using even the interest on interest, not to speak of capital, which is sacred.” “She is in poor health, you say?” said Miss Chisholm in a sad voice. “Very poor. Heart, I believe.”
711_allan_quatermain	top20	30.0	We all had our revolvers on--for though we had been politely disarmed of our guns on leaving the palace, of course these people did not know what a revolver was. Umslopogaas, too, had his axe, of which no effort had been made to deprive him, and now he whirled it round his head and sent his piercing Zulu war-shout echoing up the marble walls in fine defiant fashion. Next second, the priests, baffled of their prey, had drawn swords from beneath their white robes and were leaping on us like hounds upon a stag at bay. I saw that, dangerous as action might be, we must act or be lost, so as the first man came bounding along--and a great tall fellow he was--I sent a heavy revolver ball through him, and down he fell at the mouth of the shaft, and slid, shrieking frantically, into the fiery gulf that had been prepared for us. Whether it was his cries, or the, to them, awful sound and effect of the pistol shot, or what, I know not, but the other priests halted, paralysed and dismayed, and before they could come on again Sorais had called out something, and we, together with the two Queens and most of the courtiers, were being surrounded with a wall of armed men.
5348_ragged_dick_or_street_life_in_new_york_with_the_bootblacks	top20	120.0	CHAPTER II JOHNNY NOLAN After Dick had finished polishing Mr. Greyson's boots he was fortunate enough to secure three other customers, two of them reporters in the Tribune establishment, which occupies the corner of Spruce Street and Printing House Square. When Dick had got through with his last customer the City Hall clock indicated eight o'clock. He had been up an hour, and hard at work, and naturally began to think of breakfast. He went up to the head of Spruce Street, and turned into Nassau. Two blocks further, and he reached Ann Street. On this street was a small, cheap restaurant, where for five cents Dick could get a cup of coffee, and for ten cents more, a plate of beefsteak with a plate of bread thrown in. These Dick ordered, and sat down at a table. It was a small apartment with a few plain tables unprovided with cloths, for the class of customers who patronized it were not very particular. Our hero's breakfast was soon before him. Neither the coffee nor the steak were as good as can be bought at Delmonico's; but then it is very doubtful whether, in the present state of his wardrobe, Dick would have been received at that aristocratic restaurant, even if his means had admitted of paying the high prices there charged.
rice_interview_with_the_vampire_Interview_with_the_Vampire	top20	5.0	“A cry rose in me, a wild, consuming cry that came from the bowels of my being, rising up like the wind in that narrow place, the wind that swirled the rain teeming on those ashes, beating at the trace of a tiny hand against the bricks, that golden hair lifting, those loose strands rising, flying upwards. And a blow struck me even as I cried out; and I had hold of something that I believed to be Santiago, and I was pounding against him, destroying him, twisting that grinning white face around with hands from which he couldn’t free himself, hands against which he railed, crying out, his cries mingling with my cries, his boots coming down into those ashes, as I threw him backwards away from them, my own eyes blinded with the rain, with my tears, until he lay back away from me, and I was reaching out for him even as he held out his hand. And the one I was struggling against was Armand. Armand, who was forcing me out of the tiny graveyard into the whirling colors of the ballroom, the cries, the mingling voices, that searing, silver laughter. “And Lestat was calling out, ‘Louis, wait for me; Louis, I must talk to you!’
fielding_bridget_joness_diary_Bridget_Jones_s_Diary	top20	10.0	In which case, if you put selftanning lotion on does that mean you get suntanned cellulite inside? Or suntanned blood? Or a suntanned lymphatic drainage system? Urgh. Anyway . . . (Cigarettes. That was the other thing. No cigarettes. Oh well. Too late now. I’ll do that tomorrow.) <—Thursday 3 August 123 lbs., thigh circumference 18 inches (honestly, what is bloody point), alcohol units 0, cigarettes 25 (excellent, considering), negative thoughts: approx. 445 per hour, positive thoughts 0. Head state v. bad again. Cannot bear thought of Daniel with someone else. Mind is full of horrid fantasies about them doing things together. The plans to lose weight and change personality kept me aloft for two days, only to collapse around my ears. I realize it was only a complicated form of denial. Was believing could totally reinvent self in space of small number of days, thereby negating impact of Daniel’s hurtful and humiliating infidelity, since it had happened to me in a previous incarnation and would never have happened to my new improved self. Unfortunately, I now realize the whole point of the aloof over-made-up ice-queen on anticellulite diet palaver was to make Daniel realize the error of his ways.
6053_evelina_or_the_history_of_a_young_ladys_entrance_into_the_world	top20	5.0	I fear I shall have tired you with reading them; but you will now have time to rest, for I shall find but little to say in future. And now, most honoured Sir, with all the follies and imperfections which I have thus faithfully recounted, can you, and with unabated kindness, suffer me to sign myself Your dutiful and most affectionate EVELINA? LETTER XXIV MR VILLARS TO EVELINA Berry Hill, April 22. HOW much do I rejoice that I can again address my letters to Howard Grove! My Evelina would have grieved had she known the anxiety of my mind during her residence in the great world. My apprehensions have been inexpressibly alarming; and your journal, at once exciting and relieving my fears, has almost wholly occupied me since the time of your dating it from London. Sir Clement Willoughby must be an artful designing man: I am extremely irritated at his conduct. The passion he pretends for you has neither sincerity nor honour; the manner and the opportunities he has chosen to declare it, are bordering upon insult. His unworthy behaviour after the opera, convinces me, that, had not your vehemence frightened him, Queen Ann Street would have been the last place whither he would have ordered his chariot. O, my child, how thankful am I for your escape!
sayers_the_nine_tailors_The_Nine_Tailors	top20	86400.0	That was one of her crazes, you understand. And another was, that she didn’t believe in insurance and she didn’t believe a lot in safes, neither. She had a safe in her town house, naturally, and kept her stuff locked up in it, but I don’t suppose she’d have done that if the safe hadn’t been put in by her husband when he was alive. She was too mean to buy as much as a strongbox for herself, and when she went away on a visit, she preferred to trust to her own wits. Mad as a March Hare, she must have been,” said the Superintendent, thoughtfully, “but there! you’d be surprised what a lot of these funny old ladies there are going about loose in the world. And of course, nobody ever liked to say anything to her, because she was disgustingly rich and had the full disposal of her own property. The Thorpes were about the only relations she had in the world, so they invited her to Mr. Henry’s wedding, though it’s my belief they all hated the sight of her. If they hadn’t have asked her, she’d have taken offence, and—well, there! You can’t offend your rich relations, can you?”
nazel_every_goodbye_aint_gone_Every_Goodbye_Ain’t_Gone	top20	10.0	The coach was almost empty. A smallish woman, her leathery skin a sickly yellow under the glow of the ceiling lights that ran the length of the coach, sat directly across the aisle from him, squatting in the center of the green leather bench seat, her belongings sprawled at her sides, effectively barring unwelcome intrusion though surrounded by empty seats. She stared straight ahead, though he occasionally sensed her eyes on him. A silent trio huddled in the back of the coach, and he found that if he craned his head slightly and glared into the smudged window of the train he could see a glassy reflection of a woman and two small children. He turned in his seat and stared back at them. The woman seemed in her middle or late thirties, yet there was something in her face, like a single glowing ember in a pile of cold ashes, that suggested she might be much younger. There was something in her eyes, present even in the glassy image that mirrored her, that troubled him. He had seen it before, in the eyes of escapees from the South, who were rechristened “country” by those who did not understand. He had thought it to be fear, uncertainty, even cowardice, combined with a childlike innocence about life, founded in a lack of education and exposure.
cisneros_the_house_on_mango_street_The_House_of_Mango_Street	top20	259200.0	And it was then we took over the garden we had been afraid to go into when the monkey screamed and showed its yellow teeth. There were sunflowers big as flowers on Mars and thick cockscombs bleeding the deep red fringe of theater curtains. There were dizzy bees and bow-tied fruit flies turning somersaults and humming in the air. Sweet sweet peach trees. Thorn roses and thistle and pears. Weeds like so many squinty-eyed stars and brush that made your ankles itch and itch until you washed with soap and water. There were big green apples hard as knees. And everywhere the sleepy smell of rotting wood, damp earth and dusty hollyhocks thick and perfumy like the blue-blond hair of the dead. Yellow spiders ran when we turned rocks over and pale worms blind and afraid of light rolled over in their sleep. Poke a stick in the sandy soil and a few blue-skinned beetles would appear, an avenue of ants, so many crusty lady bugs. This was a garden, a wonderful thing to look at in the spring. But bit by bit, after the monkey left, the garden began to take over itself. Flowers stopped obeying the little bricks that kept them from growing beyond their paths. Weeds mixed in. Dead cars appeared overnight like mushrooms. First one and then another
delany_return_to_neveryon_Return_to_Neveryon	bot20	5.0	Be kind to children and small animals. When you get some woman pregnant — and, drunk or not, you will — don't run off to another town the week you hear the news. Be as kind and considerate to her as you've been to me. And when the dragon beats her wings and honks, hold her, hold her in the dark,and tell her, "No, no, there's nothing to be afraid of! It'll be all right!"' Clodon said: 'There really isn't much to be afraid of with dragons. Up close, they're all noise and bad smell. And there're not that many left.' 'Now you see?' she said, 'that's something, somewhere in your travels, you've actually learned. It's very valuable knowledge, too.' Clodon drew himself up. 'Still,' he said, 'you're asking a lot of a man like me.' 'I wasn't asking anything,' she said. 'I was answering. But an answer doesn't mean much if you can't hear your own question.' Clodon said: "You know, right up ahead is where I work. Just around that bend is where Teren's building his new house.
pugh_the_hospital_plot_The_Hospital_Plot	bot20	360.0	“Oh, yeah, the little fight at the fair.” "Uh huh. It could be a relapse.” “The only way we can prove his sanity is to find those documents. What do you think about it?” “At first I didn’t believe that story but now—I just don’t know. One thing about Aaron. He may be sensitive, changeable, and have his hangups, but I don’t think he’d lie. I've never known him to lie to me. Yet he’s so sure about this and Rita doesn’t believe him either. I guess because of his obsession with this idea of Colonel’s.” "We’ve got to find out all we can about this Colonel. Aaron's court date is set in a month. That’s not a hell of a lot of time.” “Where do we start?” "First we talk to Rita and find out as much as we can about some of the activities and personnel at Bellevue.” When Silas and Everett reached Denise’s apartment, the sun was coming out fuller, replacing the early morning darkness with a cloudy grayness. The buildings took on a shadowy, eerie aspect. To add to the spooky atmosphere, the apartment door flung open before Silas could knock.
morrison_paradise_Paradise	bot20	720.0	He thought, with alarm, that the old man was going to try to get to a town in the middle of the night, or apply to one of the farms where dark sod houses nestled up against a hillock. But Big Papa took him deeper into the piney wood where the odor of resin, lovely at first, soon gave him a headache. The sky was brilliant with stars that dwarfed the crescent moon, turning it into a shed feather. Big Papa stopped and with groaning effort knelt down. “My Father,” he said. “Zechariah here.” Then, after a few seconds of total silence, he began to hum the sweetest, saddest sounds Rector ever heard. Rector joined Big Papa on his knees and stayed that way all night. He dared not touch the old man or interfere with his humming prayer, but he couldn’t keep up and sat back on his haunches to relieve the pain in his knees. After a while he sat all the way down, holding his hat in his hand, his head bowed, trying to listen, stay awake, understand. Finally he lay on his back and watched the star trail above the trees. The heartbreaking music swallowed him, and he felt himself floating inches aboveground. He swore later that he did not fall asleep.
clancy_patriot_games_Patriot_Games	bot20	10.0	Hit or not, Ryan couldn’t tell. It was just like the exercises at Quantico, he told himself, total chaos, and the side that makes the fewest mistakes wins. “Get aboard!” He stayed up, holding his gun on the other boat. He didn’t turn his head, but felt the others board. Lightning flashed, and Ryan saw the man he’d shot, three red spots on his chest, his eyes and mouth agape in surprise. Shorty was beside him, the side of his head horribly opened. Between the two it seemed a gallon of blood had been poured onto the fiberglass deck. Robby finally arrived and jumped aboard. A head appeared in the other boat, and Ryan fired again, then clambered aboard. “Robby, get us the hell outa here!” Jack moved on hands and knees to the other side, making sure that everyone’s head was down. Jackson moved into the driver’s seat and searched for the ignition. It was set up just like a car, and the keys were in. He turned them, and the engine coughed to life as yet another burst of fire came from the other boat. Ryan heard the sound of bullets hitting the fiberglass. Robby cringed but didn’t move as his hand found the shift lever.
delmar_bad_girl_Bad_Girl	bot20	5.0	Dot wondered where she was going. She had just a dollar. To think that her life with her father and Jim was to end this way. And Edna! Thoughts failed her on the subject of Edna. She was ready now. Ready to walk through the parlor without a word to any of them. Ready to rove the streets till morning. She couldn’t go to Eddie like this. The felt hat, still coldly damp, pressed against her temples. The coat, wet and heavy, depressed her. In the parlor she paused for a speeding second. Mr. Haley was reading again with self-conscious absorption. Jim was yanking spitefully at the curtains, and Edna, bent over a sofa pillow, was plucking interestedly at the embroidery. Dot walked slowly through the hall. Her valises were heavy. So was her heart. Suppose Eddie failed her now? Then there was only the poorly paid job and the fact that she was a “little bum.” The door closed upon her with a sad, muffled little sound. The trio in the front room changed their attitudes as her footsteps died away on the marble stairs. Mr. Haley looked up from his thrilling serial story and stared ahead of him with a blank, fixed look. Jim mumbled a curse and slumped into a chair.
wesley_aint_nobodys_business_if_i_do_Ain_t_Nobody_s_Business_If_I_Do	bot20	21600.0	And you blame Eva for that?" "I don't blame anybody." ealaria ailaca aaaalajr "But you said that when you left Irene," Raye said. Hutch rocked back in his seat as if she'd tried to hit him, but Raye stared him down and he couldn't interpret what was in her eyes—whether it was anger, disgust or simple curiosity. "Irene doesn't have anything to do with this," he said almost by rote. "If you say so." "I know so," he said with finality. "Be careful. Hutch," Raye said more gently after a moment. "Summers go fast, but that Hawk flying around the comer in the middle of winter will knock you flat on your natural, grownup behind if you're not careful." "I know that, too," Hutch said. SATURDAY, JUNE 28 Two weeks after Eva and Hutch broke up, Charley and Steven, their “grown" children by different partners, sat sharing a joint in Charley's studio apartment in a small New Jersey city that was close, but not too close, to the town where they had both grown up. "So what did Daddy say to you?" Charley asked. "Nothing. How about you?"
