ali_brick_lane_Brick_Lane	2003	She ran a damp cloth over the keyboard. He was close enough to smell: limes and cloves and the lingering afterburn of sex, washed away but still there if you knew about it, like a removed stain. “Everyone was coming, you shudda seen it,” he told Nazneen, as though she had not. “Then—smack”—he clicked his fingers—“all gone again.” His beard had grown in. Even a beard could not hide how handsome he was. She remembered the meeting in the community hall at the edge of the estate, sitting below the stage, flaming inside her red sari, watching him pull the audience to his side, running home and waiting for him, knowing yet scarcely believing he would come. That was how she wanted him, like that, not with his feet on her coffee table and holes in his socks. “When we were going to organize that march ... different story.” He bent down and unraveled some wires. “Make another one.” “Lion Hearts were going to march against us. We were going to march against them. But they bottled it. They knew they were going to be outnumbered. We were going to hammer ’em.” He banged his head on the table coming up again, and rubbed it with his fist.
butler_parable_of_the_talents_Parable_of_the_Talents	1998	We aren’t cold because our “teachers” don’t want to be cold. They build a big fire in the school’s fireplace once a week. And so for a few hours on Sundays, we are warm, dry, and almost comfortable in our rows on the floor. We’re hungry, but we know we’ll soon be fed. We’re in a drowsy, passive state. Without the rest we get on Sundays, several more of us would be dead. I’m sure of that. Nevertheless, we’re being preached at while we’re in that drowsy, passive state. I doze sometimes, though we’re lashed if we’re caught sleeping. I sit up, lean against a wall, and I let myself doze. I didn’t realize it, but the two female Faircloths, it seems, had begun to listen. Worse, they had begun to believe, to be frightened, to be converted. Or perhaps not. Perhaps they had other motives. We’re always being called upon to testify to give public thanks for all the kindness and generosity that God has shown us in spite of our unworthiness. And we must confess that unworthiness and make a public repentance and a public appeal for God’s mercy. We have each been required to do this many times.
porter_ship_of_fools_Ship_of_Fools	1962	Where had •* •*6{85& her mind been wandering all this time? She struck out the whole passage, and wrote in above the thick black line: "Divine weather, if a little too warm, and a heavenly stroll with the pure sea air on my face, thinking of my dear Otto and of the blessings of our happy though all too brief marriage. R.I.P. August 25,1931.” She went on, piously to finish the two laps — what were fallen arches in comparison to the blissful sense of keeping faith with Otto? — carrying the journal between her hands as though it were a prayer book. She met the bride and groom also strolling, their clasped hands swinging lightly, both very beautiful in pure white; looking, too, astonishingly fresh and carefree considering the newness of their honeymoon. As they neared, she perceived that the bride, though serene-looking, was rather pale, with darkening smudges under her eyes; even a little ill, perhaps? And quite properly, Frau Rittersdorf answered herself with matronly approval. One had well-founded suspicions of those brides who remained unchanged in appearance and manner after marriage. Even with all the happiness of the new state, still one does not step from virginity to the strains and stresses of married life without visible sign.
mosley_rls_dream_RL_s_Dream	1995	There was the blood from his ankle, once, from a sharp rock hidden in the moss of Millwater Pond. There were the hilly nests of fire ants that would swarm over grasshoppers and tired dragonflies. Cold water was good. Blood, scabbing over and sluggish, was good. Even the fire-orange specks on the shiny green eye of the dragonfly were good. The wind through the stiff yellow grass wheezed like an old woman. Hidden in there were all kinds of birds that were named for their colors and sizes and personalities. They sang and warbled and croaked. Crows came from the devil but they couldn't catch him. They called his name in crow words but the little boy just laughed. His dreams were full of colors and smells and music. There, under the blanket of Inez's sweet smoke, he ran and played while she sat back—too old to have fun anymore. And then the kiss. Warm and moist. It was only when she thought that he was asleep that Inez kissed Atwater. The loud groan of a timber and the snick of the door told the boy that Inez had gone back to the big bed with Ruby. He could open his eyes, but now he was too tired to move. The young boy fell asleep but the old man came awake.
fisher_the_walls_of_jericho_The_Walls_of_Jericho	1928	“Hush—and if I learn to typewrite you can give me a job in your office—when you get one.” In astonishment he stopped to stare at her. The expression of mingled amusement, decision, and tenderness with which she returned his look gave 196 *V> THE WALLS OF JERICHO <V*A him a sudden overwhelming happiness. It almost upset him. “Gee!” he said, his face shining. “Gee— Lindy----” He had an impulse to catch her up and kiss her right there on the street corner oblivious to broad daylight and possible observation. Had he done so, spontaneously, on the crest of that emotional wave, the result would doubtless have been different. But the old habit of hardness, which for the instant he had almost escaped, promptly clamped itself down on his exuberance and distorted his natural impulse into, a presumably safer substitute. Every act must be sentimentally airtight. The device he adopted to make this one so, lost for them both that surging moment to which the girl wottld have responded. “Ain’t it somewhere in the Bible sump’m ’bout turnin’ th’ other cheek?” Puzzled, her own spell broken, she answered, “You mean—if a man smite you on one cheek, turn him the other also?”
selvon_the_lonely_londoners_The_Lonely_Londoners	1956	Get a kiss? Man, you really foolish, yes. Fellars like you would stay in Brit’n till you dead. You come like a old spade I know. He living down Ladbroke Grove. He come to this country since he was a young man, full of ambition, and he never went back. He had some good times, yes, but what you think happen to him in old age? If you see him now, crouching about in them tube station in a old beast coat, and picking cigarette butt from the pavement. Study for old age, boy. Study what will happen to you if you stay here and get old. Boy, if I was sure that I would get a good job in Trinidad, and I had my passage back home, you think I will stay here? But is no use talking to fellars like you. You hit two-three white women and like you gone mad.’ ‘I don’t know why you shouting down the old country like that,' Galahad say. ‘If you ain’t do well is nobody fault but your own. Look at all them other fellars who do all right for themselves. Look at the students - ’ ‘Don’t talk about students,’ Moses say. ‘That is another thing altogether.
wendt_pouliuli_Pouliuli	1977	Laaumatua didn’t attend but he sent Moaula with instructions to influence the council into going to Filemoni’s house. In front of the council and all Malae-lua, Laaumatua said, Moaula was then to censure his cousin and order him to leave Malaelua. ‘... And, as you know, Filemoni and his aiga are leaving today,’ Laaumatua ended his narrative. ‘Well done! I never knew you had it in you though,’ said Faleasa jokingly. ‘Had what?’ ‘The instinct of the killer!’ laughed Faleasa. ‘I’ve always had it hidden in my burden!’ They planned their next major move and then slept until late afternoon. As they walked back to Malaelua Laaumatua asked Faleasa if he had another pastor in mind. ‘Did he?’ Faleasa replied. Laaumatua nodded. ‘So. Go ahead and get him,’ Faleasa said. Chapter 7 At first the gogo was a silver speck floating lazily in the brilliant sky; then, as Faleasa watched it, his breath propping it up in the still air, it dropped lower and lower until it was a luminous humming of outstretched wings circling above the heads of the trees he was standing under. Once, twice, three times it circled, sleek head and body pinned back, long tail trailing....
grace_potiki_Potiki	1987	Mum saw Grandmother dressed up nice. Grandmother had the cloak and the pounamu. And she wore a little locket with tiny tiny photos of children. The children were Miria and Tame. Well Dad remembered when he used to hikihiki Miria on his back, and he remembered Miria and Tame playing on the verandah and by the gardens. But Miria died of a disease in her back and Tame died of pneumonia when he had just learned to crawl. And there were other babies of the whanau there too. Babies with real names but who had died before they got to be born. So it was as if they hadn’t been born yet and would come out and cry soon and want their kai. Or it was as if they were sleeping and waiting to be big enough to know you, and to come out and play, or to catch little fish with their quick hands, or to throw stones in the sea. The children would weed the places and fill the jars with water, putting the same number of flowers in each jar to be fair. Then they would go from grave to grave squatting and putting an ear to each place. They would listen carefully but would hear nothing. No one called to them, no baby cried, no one whispered to them the secrets of under the ground.
ward_dark_lover_Dark_Lover	2005	“And I’m heartbroken that we gotta split now. But we’ll be seeing you and that new recruit again. Soon.” Wrath nodded to Vishous, swept clean the memories of the humans, and dematerialized. Mr. X was in awe. The Blind King lived. There had been stories circulating for centuries about him, legends really, but there hadn’t been a confirmed sighting since Mr. X had joined the society. In fact, rumors had even abounded that the regal warrior had died, extrapolations based primarily on the disintegration of vampire society. But no, the king was alive. Good God. Now that would be a prize to lay at the Omega’s altar. “I told you he was coming,” Billy was saying to the staties. “He’s my martial-arts teacher. Why did you pull us over?” The officers holstered their guns, focusing on Mr. X. “May I see some identification, sir?” one of them asked. Mr. X smiled and handed over his driver’s license. “Billy and I are just going out for dinner. Maybe a movie.” The man studied the picture and then his face. “Mr. Xavier, here’s your license back. Sorry for the inconvenience.” “Not a problem, Officer.”
kenealy_the_chant_of_jimmie_blacksmith_The_Chant_of_Jimmie_Blacksmith	1972	There were two lumps of corned beef rolled and skewered. One was half eaten. Jimmie took the other. “Want a burlap,” he said. “Yer’ll find one about,” the old man advised him. “These are the Blacksmith boys, mother, but they aren’t goin’t’ kill us. God won’t allow it.” His decree ran hypnotically between the woman and his visitors. Jimmie was furious with the wrong sort of fury, the anger of a subordinate. He savaged the tins above the mantel but left enough for a meal or two in each. Apologetically, Mort examined the old man’s rifle, which was wired together at stock and linstock and probably past use. Then he prodded some traps with his foot. When the food was packed, tossed without system, rice on beef on water biscuit, Jimmie approached the bed. “Yer can’t take our blankets. It might be September but we’re still gittin’ cold nights up here. We only jest got enough.” “We ain’t got any.” “We earned ours.” “Let ’em take the blankets, Dad,” the old lady whispered 122 again and again at the hem of her counterpane. “Let ’em take the blankets.” It was like a private prayer.
michener_tales_of_the_south_pacific_Tales_of_the_South_Pacific	1948	I didn’t blame Latouche for wanting her husband dead. Achille Barzan was a pretty poor sort, the son of French peasants who had been deported to Noumea years before for some crime, no one remembered what. They had chopped their plantation from the jungle. Alone they planted coconut trees and nursed cacao bushes into trees. They lived like less than pigs for eight years, getting no returns, going deeper into debt. Then, just as the plantation started to make money, their son married Latouche De Becque, bastard daughter of a renegade Frenchman who lived with one colored girl after another. Their only comfort was that Latouche had brought a dowry. Her father stole it from some planter up north. And the girl was good-looking. “Too good-looking!” old Madame Barzan observed. “She’ll bring sorrow to our son. Mark my words.” The old woman had early detected Latouche’s willfulness. It was no surprise to her, therefore, when Achille had to knock her down and forbid her to visit Noumea. Nor could the family do anything to make her stop ridiculing old Petain. The Barzans, mother, father, son, saw clearly that only the grim marshal’s plan of work and discipline could save France. “Why, look!” Achille said.
cozzens_by_love_possessed_By_Love_Possessed	1957	Elmer’s mother was an Orcutt; and to Elmer had, in due course, descended his portion of that patent water-closet bowl wealth. By profits, one was created gentleman. They entitled an Orcutt to stand first in what good society Brocton could show; just as in metropolitan society those who bore once-lowly names of a scow-boatman or a pedlar with a pack, dubbed gentle by profits even greater, had their warrant to queen or king it over their special subjects, the four hundred or so people proposed as fit for them to know. Elmer Abbott said: “Certainly I think one has the right to expect one’s rector to be a gentleman. He’s supposed to come of very good people. His mother seems to be a lady. I can’t understand it. No person of breeding would speak that way—ordering me around like a servant!” Arthur Winner said: “I don’t believe Doctor Trowbridge intended that at all—” “So much the worse!” Elmer Abbott said. "After all, we know a gentleman’s been defined as a person who’s never rude unintentionally. I’m really very much upset, Arthur. I’ve given myself time to think about it, making what allowances I could, and I’m still upset.
walker_the_color_purple_The_Color_Purple	1983	And then she haul off and kiss me on the mouth. * m * Um, she say, like she surprise. I kiss her back, say, um, too. Us kiss and kiss till us can’t hardly kiss no more. Then us touch each other. I don’t know nothing bout it, I say to Shug. I don’t know much, she say. Then I feels something real soft and wet on my breast, feel like one of my little lost babies mouth. Way after while, I act like a little lost baby too. Dear God, Grady and Mr._______come staggering in round daybreak. Me and Shug sound asleep. Her back to me, my arms round her waist. What it like? Little like sleeping with mama, only I can’t hardly remember ever sleeping with her. Little like sleeping with Nettie, only sleeping with Nettie never feel this good. It warm and cushiony, and I feel Shug’s big tits sorta flop over my arms like suds. It feel like heaven is what it feel like, not like sleeping with Mr.____at all. Wake up Sugar, I say. They back. And Shug roll over, hug me, and git out of the bed. She stagger into the other room and fall on the bed with Grady.
johnson_now_in_november_Now_in_November	1935	They were used to her doing this! For five minutes Kerrin rushed on with her questions, then slammed the book shut quickly. She looked up and saw me without at first knowing who it was. I saw the blood wash up her face in a tide and go away leaving only the soiled, burnt color of her skin. She was angry and nervous as if she’d been caught in some nasty thing. ‘When did you sneak up here? Who sent you?’ she kept asking before I had a chance to say. She came to the door, and her thin face looked blotched and ugly out in the glaring light. Even when I explained to her why I’d come, and she called out Whit to tell him, it was more the shock of my coming than the news of Old Wally’s death that concerned her. ‘Who sent you?’ she asked. ‘What’d you sneak up here for? Why didn’t they come themselves?’ When Whit came outside she told him to go on home. ‘Your folks called up. You’ve got to go home.’ The boy looked scared and sullen, and didn’t seem to believe her. ‘Your uncle’s dead,’ she told him. ‘Hay-hoist knocked him off.’
collins_the_hunger_games_The_Hunger_Games	2008	Odd vowels, clipped words, and always a hiss on the letter s. . . no wonder it’s impossible not to mimic them. Venia makes what’s supposed to be a sympathetic face. “Good news, though. This is the last one. Ready?” I get a grip on the edges of the table I’m seated on and nod. The final swathe of my leg hair is uprooted in a painful jerk. I’ve been in the Remake Center for more than three hours and I still haven’t met my stylist. Apparently he has no interest in seeing me until Venia and the other members of my prep team have addressed some obvious problems. This has included scrubbing down my body with a gritty foam that has removed not only dirt but at least three layers of skin, turning my nails into uniform shapes, and primarily, ridding my body of hair. My legs, arms, torso, underarms, and parts of my eyebrows have been stripped of the stuff, leaving me like a plucked bird, ready for roasting. I don’t like it. My skin feels sore and tingling and intensely vulnerable. But I have kept my side of the bargain with Haymitch, and no objection has crossed my lips. “You’re doing very well,” says some guy named Flavius.
bulawayo_we_need_new_names_We_Need_New_Names	2013	MaMoyo quickly comes to get him because no woman wants to be chided in front of the whole church. The Evangelists and Prophet Revelations Bitchington Mborro arrive after everybody, like chief baboons. They look like something else with the colorful crosses embla- zoned on their robes, their long sticks with the hooks at the ends, their bald heads glimmering in the sun, the long beards; you can just tell that they are trying to copy the style of those men in the Bible. Today Prophet Revelations Bitchington Mborro is wearing a brand-new robe; it’s milk white, with green and red stripes going down the sides. He is also carrying a new stick, and his doesn’t look like the Evangelists’—it’s way longer and fatter, like it can actually injure and do ugly things. At the end of the stick is a cross inside a circle. When the Evangelists and Prophet Revelations Bitchington Mborro come, you know that it has really begun, so a tall thin woman stands up and starts singing “Mikoro” and I just want to die because the song bores me like I don’t know what. All of them are on their feet now, singing and shuffling and swaying, singing and shuffling and swaying, like maybe they have caught the spirit, but if they have, then it skipped me.
cisneros_the_house_on_mango_street_The_House_of_Mango_Street	1984	And it was then we took over the garden we had been afraid to go into when the monkey screamed and showed its yellow teeth. There were sunflowers big as flowers on Mars and thick cockscombs bleeding the deep red fringe of theater curtains. There were dizzy bees and bow-tied fruit flies turning somersaults and humming in the air. Sweet sweet peach trees. Thorn roses and thistle and pears. Weeds like so many squinty-eyed stars and brush that made your ankles itch and itch until you washed with soap and water. There were big green apples hard as knees. And everywhere the sleepy smell of rotting wood, damp earth and dusty hollyhocks thick and perfumy like the blue-blond hair of the dead. Yellow spiders ran when we turned rocks over and pale worms blind and afraid of light rolled over in their sleep. Poke a stick in the sandy soil and a few blue-skinned beetles would appear, an avenue of ants, so many crusty lady bugs. This was a garden, a wonderful thing to look at in the spring. But bit by bit, after the monkey left, the garden began to take over itself. Flowers stopped obeying the little bricks that kept them from growing beyond their paths. Weeds mixed in. Dead cars appeared overnight like mushrooms. First one and then another
grisham_the_rainmaker_The_Rainmaker	1995	“What’s in it?” “Oh, the usual. It’s pretty standard language. You guys hire us as your lawyers, we handle the case, take care of the expenses, and we get a third of any recovery.” “Then why does it take two pages of small print?” she asks as she pulls a cigarette from a pack on the table. “Don’t light that!” Donny snaps over his shoulder. He looks at me, and says, “No wonder I’m dying.” Without hesitation, she sticks the cigarette between her lips and keeps looking at the document. She doesn’t light it. “And all three of us have to sign it?” “That’s right.” “Well, he said he ain’t cornin’ in,” she said. “Then take it out there to him,” Donny Ray says angrily. “Just get a pen and go out there and make him sign the damned thing.” “I hadn’t thought of that,” she says. “We’ve done it before.” Donny Ray lowers his head and scratches his scalp. The sharp words have winded him. “I guess I could,” she says, still hesitant. “Just go, dammit!”
narayan_swami_and_friends_Swami_and_Friends	1935	Please be urgent. Yours obediently, Captain Rajam (Captain). This letter received Swaminathan’s benedictions. But Mani expressed certain doubts. He wanted to know whether ‘Dear’ could stand at the beginning of a letter to a perfect stranger. ‘How can you call Binns “Dear Sir”? You must say “Sir”.’ Rajam’s explanation was: ‘I won’t say “Sir”. It is said only by clerks. I am not Binns’s clerk. I don’t care to address him as “Sir”.’ So this letter went as it was. After this exacting work they were resting, with a feeling of relief, when the postman came in with a card for Rajam. Rajam read it and cried, ‘Guess who has written this?’ ‘Binns.’ ‘Silly. It must be our headmaster.’ ‘Somebody.’ ‘J. B. Hobbs.’ Tt is from Sankar,’ Rajam announced joyfully. ‘Sankar! We had almost forgotten that old thief.’ Swaminathan and Mani tore the card from Rajam’s hand and read: My dear friend, I am studying here because my father came here. My mother is also here. All of us are here. And we will be only here. I am doing well.
laurence_the_stone_angel_The_Stone_Angel	1965	I’ve not had a drop of water since—I can’t remember how long it’s been. A long time. It’s not the way I imagined thirst would feel. My throat doesn’t burn or even seem particularly dry. But it’s blocked and shut, and it pains me when I swallow. I can’t drink seawater—isn’t it meant to be poisonous? Certainly. Water water everywhere nor any drop to drink. That’s my predicament. What albatross did I slay, for mercy’s sake? Well, well, we’ll see—come on, old mariner, up and out of your smelly bunk and we’ll see what can be found. Almost gaily, though God knows I’ve little enough reason for it, I rise with some slight slowness and put on my hat, first taking care to brush the pebbled dust off the velvet petals as best I can. I pick up my bag of provisions and venture down the stairs and out the door. The morning is light and calm, clean and gold. The old cannery stands quiet and unalarming in the warm air, and around the boards at the sea edge I can hear the water’s low rhythmic slapping. The ground is damp—it must have rained last night. The dust is off the trees.
anand_coolie_Coolie	1936	‘These schoolboys don’t learn to apply mathematics, they only learn to do sums. Don’t let him come anywhere near me or I shall kill him.’ Prabha kept silent and made towards the account books. Munoo stood waiting in suspense, not knowing whether to go near the platform. There was a panic in Ganpat’s soul. He knew that his little game of lying and suppressing the truth about the accounts was played out. He tried, however, to distract his partner’s attention from the money question. ‘Why should that bastard be treated any better than the others?’ ‘He is not treated any better,’ said Prabha softly, and began to unfold the account books. The hour of decision had come for Ganpat. But he still wanted to avert it. ‘He raised all the trouble this afternoon,’ Ganpat said, ‘by giving jam to that bitch.’ ‘Don’t fall to abusing people,’ said Prabha, a little sternly. ‘You know I have had to apologize to those people for your rudeness already. I sent them the jam through this boy. So it is neither their fault nor his. And 1 did it because I wanted to be on good terms with them, as we have not acknowledged the pro-note.’
rhodes_douglass_women_Douglass__Women	2002	Looking at me, counting all the things I had against me. Age. No beauty. But I had will. Some money set aside. I could help. I stared at him straight on. “You would do this? Help me?” “Yes.” “I never—” Never what? I wondered. Had a woman like me? Had someone who wanted to help him, who believed in him? Mister Bailey—Freddy— wasn’t meant for quitting. He felt like that now. But that wasn’t the best in him. “I’ll help you be free.” This time I knew he’d heard me clear. He drew up, looked down into my eyes, my very soul. I tried to show him all my loving. Show him he needn’t fear. “I will think on this.” Air burst out of me. This felt worse than any other pain. Worse than the time I’d fallen out the tree. Worse than burning my hand in the fire. Worse than the time my Pa laid down and didn’t get up. All those times together, still didn’t equal my hurt. I’d been fooling myself. Living dreams when the real world had other plans. I looked at my room. At myself.
christie_and_then_there_were_none_And_Then_There_Were_None	1939	He bent over the bed where the woman was lying peacefully on her side. He lifted the cold hand, raised the eyelid. It was some few minutes before he straightened himself and turned from the bed. Rogers whispered: "Is—she—is she—?" He passed a tongue over dry lips. Armstrong nodded. "Yes, she's gone." His eyes rested thoughtfully on the man before him. Then they went to the table by the bed, to the washstand, then back to the sleeping woman. Rogers said: "Was it—was it—'er 'eart, doctor?" Dr. Armstrong was a minute or two before replying. Then he said: "What was her health like normally?" Rogers said: "She was a bit rheumaticky." "Any doctor been attending her recently?" "Doctor?" Rogers stared. "Not been to a doctor for years—neither of us." "You'd no reason to believe she suffered from heart trouble?" "No, doctor. I never knew of anything." Armstrong said: "Did she sleep well?" Now Rogers' eyes evaded his. The man's hands came together and turned and twisted uneasily. He muttered: "She didn't sleep extra well—no."
danticat_the_farming_of_bones_The_Farming_of_Bones	1998	To distract myself, I pushed my hands in and out of the empty pockets. A whiff of wet pine breezed past my nose. I heard the moan of a man trying not to scream, saw Odette’s dying face, and drifted back to sleep. In my sleep, I see my mother rising, like the mother spirit of the rivers, above the current that drowned her. She is wearing a dress of glass, fashioned out of the hardened clarity of the river, and this dress flows like raised dust behind her as she runs towards me and enfolds me in her smoke-light arms. Her face is like mine is now, in fact it is the exact same long, three-different-shades-of-night face, and she is smiling a both-rows-of-teeth revealing smile. “I was saving my smile for when you needed it,” she says, in a cheerful voice I do not remember, for she had always spoken so briefly and so sternly. “I didn’t want you to think that love was not scarce because it is, that it flowed freely from everywhere, or that it was something you could expect without price from everyone.” “And what of that time when I was dying and the doll came?”
fielding_bridget_joness_diary_Bridget_Jones_s_Diary	1996	In which case, if you put selftanning lotion on does that mean you get suntanned cellulite inside? Or suntanned blood? Or a suntanned lymphatic drainage system? Urgh. Anyway . . . (Cigarettes. That was the other thing. No cigarettes. Oh well. Too late now. I’ll do that tomorrow.) <—Thursday 3 August 123 lbs., thigh circumference 18 inches (honestly, what is bloody point), alcohol units 0, cigarettes 25 (excellent, considering), negative thoughts: approx. 445 per hour, positive thoughts 0. Head state v. bad again. Cannot bear thought of Daniel with someone else. Mind is full of horrid fantasies about them doing things together. The plans to lose weight and change personality kept me aloft for two days, only to collapse around my ears. I realize it was only a complicated form of denial. Was believing could totally reinvent self in space of small number of days, thereby negating impact of Daniel’s hurtful and humiliating infidelity, since it had happened to me in a previous incarnation and would never have happened to my new improved self. Unfortunately, I now realize the whole point of the aloof over-made-up ice-queen on anticellulite diet palaver was to make Daniel realize the error of his ways.
habila_oil_on_water_Oil_on_Water	2011	Clearly he didn’t remember me. I hid my disappointment, and reminded myself it had been five years since that day at Bar Beach, and five years since I made my phone call to him. I wanted to compare views with Zaq, to see if he thought we were in any danger from the kidnappers, but he kept his eyes on the water, appearing at times to be sleeping, his face lowered into his bulky life jacket. He looked queasy, already seasick. Looking at him—the curled gray tufts in his hair, the thick midsection resting in his lap, a testament to his love affair with the bottle—I found it hard to believe that this was once the most famous reporter in Lagos, and probably in all of Nigeria. We headed south. I turned and looked back at the receding waterfront and the swath of white foamy furrow following in the boat’s wake, curving when we curved, a soothing and mesmerizing sight that for a moment took my mind off whatever awaited us at our rendezvous. Soon we were out of the open water and into the narrow channels that were like valleys bordered on both sides by dense palm plants or sometimes by unexpected cliff faces. Here the going became slow, and after a few hours the city lay far away behind us.
stegner_angle_of_repose_Angle_of_Repose	1972	Wait, she told herself bitterly. In ten years the trees will have grown up enough to shade the house in the late afternoon. But the air, warm or not, was fresher than inside, and there were tendrils of coolness wandering in off the lawn, where Oliver had set the hose cart to irrigate the grass. Suspiciously, as if expecting to smell some sort of incriminating evidence, she sniffed at the mixed odors of hot day and cooling evening—sage, dust, firecrackers, the wet wood of the waterwagon like the smell of an old rowboat, and among these a freshness of wet grass and a drift of fragrance from the yellow climber at the corner. The northwest had cooled from its hot gold, the hills were black against it. But she looked at their silhouette without pleasure, hardly seeing it, intent on the shapes of trouble in her mind. It was so quiet that she could hear the creak of buggy wheels receding far down the lane toward the road, and the voices of the girls surprisingly clear and close-seeming, though they must have been almost a half mile away. Her first act after waving them good-bye had been to rush into her stuffy bedroom and get out of dress, corset, shoes, everything confining, and into a dressing gown.
obrien_at_swim_two_birds_At_Swim-Two-Birds	1939	We can but try, said Furriskey. Well, well, well, said Orlick. Tuesday had come down through Dundrum and Foster Avenue, brine-fresh from sea-travel, a corn-yellow sun-drench that called forth the bees at an incustomary hour to their day of bumbling. Small house-flies performed brightly in the embrasures of the windows, whirling without a fear on imaginary trapezes in the limelight of the sunslants. Dermot Trellis neither slept nor woke but lay there in his bed, a twilight in his eyes. His hands he rested emptily at his thighs and his legs stretched loose-jointed and heavily to the bed-bottom. His diaphragm, a metronome of quilts, heaved softly and relaxed in the beat of his breathing. Generally speaking he was at peace. His home was by the banks of the Grand Canal, a magnificent building resembling a palace, with seventeen windows to the front and maybe twice that number to the rear. It was customary with him to remain in the interior of his house without ever opening the door to go out or let the air and the light go in. The blind of his bedroom window would always be pulled down during the daytime and a sharp eye would discover that he had the gas on even when the sun was brightly shining.
price_clockers_Clockers	1992	“Now I’m really fucking confused because you said, in so many words, the guy was a fucking prick, but it turns out you’re the only one to have that opinion.” “I said I didn’t know. I was juh-just imagining.” Strike puffed his cheeks, the knife in his guts jabbing harder. “It’s my brother, man. I was just trying to help my buh-brother.” “But you had to know something to say it, right? I don’t understand. Are you sure you didn’t know him?” “Well, I might have seen him in the street or in the Ahab’s, just like, you know, you see people.” “But you called him a prick.” “I-I didn’t say that,” Strike said, his stammer making the words float away from him. “Unh-uh.” “OK, you said he had an attitude, same thing. How can you say that if you didn’t. . . Look, tell me the truth, just between me and you, no big deal. Did you ever have a confrontation with this guy?” “Unh-uh.” Strike was grateful for a question he could answer straight.
gibbs_soundings_Soundings	1925	The gentry were not in it. The whole episode passed, indeed, from the front rank of interest when it was learned that Mr. Hawthorne had telephoned to the barracks at Wendlesbury and that Curly had taken the shilling in the Oxford and Bucks regiment. It remained for Mrs. Weeks to have the last word. “And a good riddance to bad rubbish! ” she said. Chapter Five I The small community of Friar’s Icknield carried gregariousness to the point of exaggeration usual to most rural societies. There were sociables and high teas, mothers’ meetings and progressive bridge. The relative social positions of the respective wives of the architect, the bank chairman, the dentist and the chemist were defined to a pin point. It was possible to invite the dentist’s wife occasionally, as a stop-gap, to a progressive. With the chemist’s wife, however, it was the thing to nod kindly in the street and ask how the baby was, — the inevitable baby. The Vicar’s wife summed it up. She came of a county family and had nursed dreams of a bishopric. “My dear John, it’s all very well to read and applaud brilliant articles on internationalism. I agree with you, of course, that as an ideal internationalism is very laudable, although entirely chimeric.
baldwin_go_tell_it_on_the_mountain_Go_Tell_It_on_The_Mountain	1953	And he began to climb. After a little, clinging to the rock, he found himself with only clouds above him and mist below—and he knew that beyond the wall of mist reigned fire. His feet began to slip; pebbles and rocks began ringing beneath his feet; he looked up, trembling, in terror of death, and he cried: “Lord, I can’t come no higher.” But the voice repeated after a moment, quiet and strong and impossible to deny: “Come on, son. Come higher.” Then he knew that, if he would not fall to death, he must obey the voice. He began to climb again, and his feet slipped again; and when he thought that he would fall there suddenly appeared before him green, spiny leaves; and he caught onto the leaves, which hurt his hand, and the voice said again: “Come higher.” And so Gabriel climbed, the wind blowing through his clothes, and his feet began to bleed, and his hands were bleeding; and still he climbed, and he felt that his back was breaking; and his legs were growing numb and they were trembling, and he could not control them; and still before him there was only cloud, and below him the roaring mist.
macinnes_a_three_novel_omnibus_Above_Suspicion	1941	Thornley held the shaded torch, and Richard tried to steady the small mirror from Frances’ bag. Smith creamed and powdered the ugly bruises which showed. He darkened his eyebrows skilfully, altering their shape, and with the same pencil shaded in the lines on his face. Then he found the small pair of scissors in the bag, and looked at them thoughtfully. “We’ll have to stop to get rid of these anyway,” he said, kicking the rags on the floor which had been his clothes. “Better draw up for a moment; this is as good a place as any.” It was the beginning of the hill down into Jenbach. On their right was a steep ravine, thickly wooded. They could only hear the water of the stream. It was impossible to see it, at this point, for the undergrowth. Thornley slipped out of the car with the old clothes, and disappeared down the steep bank. When he came back, he reported that he had found a nice thick bush, not very far down. It had been too risky to go any farther. “Not a place for picnicking, or a roll in the hay,” he said. “They should rot there peacefully.” Smith had finished emphasizing a widow’s peak with the scissors.
morrison_god_help_the_child_God_Help_the_Child	2015	No slaveowner could have done it better. Booker put away his notebook. Dusk enveloped him and he let the warm air calm him while he looked forward to the dawn. Bride woke in sunshine from a dreamless sleep—deeper than drunkenness, deeper than any she had known. Now having slept so many hours she felt more than rested and free of tension; she felt strong. She didn’t get up right away; instead she remained in Booker’s bed, eyes closed, enjoying a fresh vitality and blazing clarity. Having confessed Lula Ann’s sins she felt newly born. No longer forced to relive, no, outlive the disdain of her mother and the abandonment of her father. Pulling herself away from reverie she sat up and saw Booker drinking coffee at the pull-down table. He looked pensive rather than hostile. So she joined him, picked a strip of bacon from his plate and ate it. Then she bit into his toast. “Want more?” Booker asked. “No. No thanks.” “Coffee? Juice?” “Well, coffee, maybe.” bure. Bride rubbed her eyelids trying to replay the moments before she fell asleep. The swelling over Booker’s left temple helped. “You got me over to your bed with one working arm?”
roberts_northwest_passage_Northwest_Passage	1937	I don’t want him to fall.” “No,” Ogden whispered, “don’t let me fall. I wouldn’t want to fall. As long as I don’t fall I’ll be all right.” “Come ahead,” Rogers called down the line. As we moved forward he came back to make sure we were all on our feet. We saw him peering at us hard in the moonlight as we passed him. “Step along,” he kept saying, “step along! It’ll be daylight in a couple of hours. We’ll stop to eat when it’s daylight.” As his voice faded behind us, I could hear Pomp Whipple’s oily chuckle: Lieutenant Dunbar’s reedy voice; the querulous tones of Mrs. Wick; the rustling scuffling of many moccasined feet on the path; the rattling thumps of men tripping and falling, and scrambling up again. We moved slowly, but when Rogers returned and took his place at our head, we went more rapidly. “If we keep going this way,” I said to Jesse, “starting two hours before dawn, we’ll reach Memphremagog in no time.” “I guess so,” Jesse said. His voice was not enthusiastic—a fact which I hoped was due to his great age.
chesnutt_the_house_behind_the_cedars_gutenberg_pg472_House_Behind_the_Cedars	1900	Personally, I shall never be able to think of you as other than a white man, as you may gather from the tone of this letter; and while I cannot marry your sister, I wish her every happiness, and remain, Yours very truly, GEORGE TRYON. Warwick could not know that this formal epistle was the last of a dozen that Tryon had written and destroyed during the week since the meeting in Patesville,--hot, blistering letters, cold, cutting letters, scornful, crushing letters. Though none of them was sent, except this last, they had furnished a safety-valve for his emotions, and had left him in a state of mind that permitted him to write the foregoing. And now, while Rena is recovering from her illness, and Tryon from his love, and while Fate is shuffling the cards for another deal, a few words may be said about the past life of the people who lived in the rear of the flower garden, in the quaint old house beyond the cedars, and how their lives were mingled with those of the men and women around them and others that were gone. For connected with our kind we must be; if not by our virtues, then by our vices,--if not by our services, at least by our needs. XVIII UNDER THE OLD REGIME
ng_little_fires_everywhere_Little_Fires_Everywhere	2018	“Every time, you knew. Before I’d said a word.” “And then, about a month ago, she suddenly went back to normal. Her face flattened out again. Back to being skinny and straight as a rail. I wondered.” Mrs. McCullough took a deep breath. “I wondered if she might have been pregnant, and then ended it.” “An abortion.” Mrs. Richardson settled back in her chair. “That’s a big accusation.” “I’m not accusing,” Mrs. McCullough insisted. “I told you, I don’t have proof. Only a suspicion. And you said anything.” She sipped her coffee, which had gone cold. “If she had had an abortion, would that change anything? ” “Maybe.” Mrs. Richardson considered. “Having an abortion doesn’t make her a bad mother, of course. Though it would likely turn public opinion against her, if the news got out. People don’t like to hear about abortions. And an abortion while trying to get back a baby you abandoned?” She drummed her fingers on the table. “At the very least, it would suggest that she was careless enough to get pregnant again.” She took Mrs. McCullough’s hand and squeezed it.
field_all_this_and_heaven_too_All_This,_and_Heaven_Too	1938	They wanted to find the remains of Marie Antoinette’s hameau with its thatched cottages and bams and dovecots in half-rain. They must explore the mysterious rock grotto, once dedicated to the god of love, and they must eat their luncheon by the fish pond and the little stream that had been brought there for a Queen’s pleasure, and that still gurgled among artificially piled rocks that were green now with more than half a century of moss. “Here, here it is!” the two children called as they came on the pathetically romantic little group of buildings. “Look, Papa, that must have been the mill over there. Mademoiselle, see how the brook tumbles over the little waterfall!” Their delight in this deserted miniature world was contagious. Henriette could not help thinking that Marie Antoinette herself would have been pleased by this tribute paid so many years afterward to her favorite toy. The three left her with the lunch basket while they explored the little stream and hunted for the hidden Grotto of Love. She spread a carriage rag on the steps of a tiny peasant cottage and, seating herself upon it, let the melancholy charm of the place work its will. How still it was, and yet alive with the pulses of spring! The air came fresh and redolent with earthy dampness.
barnes_years_of_grace_Years_of_Grace	1931	There’s a lot of the nomad in me, you know. I guess the tent got into my blood. If I’d been born a gypsy instead of a Methodist minister’s son, I’d never have broken home ties. Golly! ’—he waved his cigarette with enthusiasm — ‘I’d like to go round the world. Round and round it in circles. Round it in every latitude. Let’s do it, Jane! Let’s surprise Stephen to-night! You leave a note on the pincushion and I’ll send a wire to Agnes. “Gone — to points unknown!” We’ll set out for the Golden Gate — I guess we can buy those knapsacks in the Northwestern Station — and sail for the South Sea Islands and drift over to Siam and Burma and India and on up to China — and by that time Stephen and Agnes will have divorced us and I’ll make you an honest woman, Jane, in a little Chinese shrine with the temple bells ringing overhead, and we’ll wander on, through Tibet and Afghanistan and Persia to Asia Minor, or maybe up to Russia, and then down through the civilized countries, which won’t be so nice, but where the food will be much better, to Africa, Jane! To the Dark Continent.
carter_new_england_white_New_England_White	2007	“Unless you wanted to meet me where there was zero possibility of being overheard.” “Although they deny it, I’ve always suspected that the Secret Service has the whole White House wired for sound.” “Probably not the balcony, though.” Mary smiled. Her lips, painted bright red, would otherwise have been nearly invisible, despite her protuberant mouth. “Yes. Probably not the balcony.” She stubbed out the second cigarette. Down below, uniformed guards on patrol looked up at them suspiciously. The writer waved, so Julia did, too, on the off chance that waving helped them decide whom not to shoot. “And, yes, you’re right, when I heard you were going to be here I sort of had to persuade Mr. Pulitzer Prize in there to bring me as his date instead of somebody else.” A glance at the door. “He needed a lot of persuading.” “Am I supposed to be flattered?” “No. You’re supposed to stop attacking me and listen for a minute. I’m joking. Okay, I’m not joking. But, seriously, please, Julia. Just give me a minute. Kellen came to me, not the other way around. That’s what I want you to understand.
marshall_the_fisher_king_The_Fisher_King	2000	“No,” he had lied. “I warn you, she’s old and acts a little odd at times, but you’re not to let it bother you. After all, she’s family and blood.” “There’re all kinds of family and bloods got nothing to do with it!” Hattie. She had sounded to Sonny as if ready to take him and herself right back home on the plane that had brought them. The man had hastily agreed with her. Now she was saying to the woman, and she was no longer being polite, “All right, Mrs. Payne, I get the message. I’m leaving. But I’ll be back for him in an hour, if not before. He’s to meet his other great-grandmother this morning too, y’know. She’s got as much right to him as anybody else around here!” Then, bending down to hug him from behind, Hattie repeated the instructions she’d given him earlier: if there was a problem or he didn’t like it or if anything happened to upset or frighten him he was to phone her and she’d come get him right away. To prevent the woman from understanding, she had switched from English to French. Or what with Hattie passed for French. Terrible.
parks_shannon_Shannon	1981	"I'm just hauling away the dishes, ma'am." "Where are you going? Where are you — " Shannon broke off the question sharply, astounded by the sight of Delsey standing a few feet beyond holding a tray of dishes. "Oh, I was just dreaming — just dreaming, Delsey." "Can I fetch you anything, ma'am?" "No — nothing, Delsey." "Sorry to wake you, ma'am." "It's all right, Delsey. It's all right." Shannon closed her eyes and lay back on the chaise, exhausted, shivering. Despite the afternoon heat the cold breeze still remained. Melissa dropped by later that afternoon. "Well, how do you like Millicent?" she asked Shannon. "She's just wonderful. We accomplished a lot in the little time that she was here," Shannon answered. She handed Melissa a sheaf of papers. "Here's the guest list. It's nearly complete." She poured tea as Melissa scanned the list. "Oh, you'll find some surprises there. I'm sure," she said smiling. "Sugar and cream?" Melissa, caught up in some surprises at the very top of the list, failed to answer. "Sugar and cream?"
wouk_marjorie_morningstar_Marjorie_Morningstar	1955	After that she told me about her brother Seth getting killed at Okinawa flying for the Navy, and then about a baby boy of hers, the second, that had choked to death in its crib at the age of two months, the doctors never figured out why. And about her father going broke and having a heart attack, and her husband putting him back on his feet at terrific cost, and about her mother-in-law being bedridden in her house for four years, dying slowly of some blood disease. She was quite detached, not in the least self-pitying about all this, even when she said at one point, “I’ve come by these gray hairs honestly, you see.” It all added up to a lot of soap-opera afflictions, I guess. I can see why those programs are popular. Childless people, people without families like me, don’t know about such things, but the average housewife sees herself being dramatized, I suppose. I began to be ashamed of having thought Marjorie dull and boring at first. Yet she is dull, dull as she can be, by any technical standard. You couldn’t write a play about her that would run a week, or a novel that would sell a thousand copies. There’s no angle.
asimov_foundation_i_robot_Foundation	1951	The planet, Terminus, by itself cannot support a mechanized civilization. It lacks metals. You know that. It hasn’t a trace of iron, copper, or aluminium in the surface rocks, and precious little of anything else. What do you think will happen to the Encyclopedia if this watchmacallum King of Anacreon clamps down on us?’ ‘On us? Are you forgetting that we are under the direct control of the Emperor himself? We are not part of the Prefect of Anacreon or of any other prefect. Memorize that! We are part of the Emperor's personal domain, and no one touches us. The Empire can protect its own.' ‘Then why didn’t it prevent the Royal Governor of Anacreon from kicking over the traces? And only Anacreon? At least twenty of the outermost prefects of the Galaxy, the entire Periphery as a matter of fact, have begun steering things their own way. I tell you I feel darned uncertain of the Empire and its ability to protect us.’ ‘Hokum! Royal Governors, Kings - what’s the difference? The Empire is always shot through with a certain amount of politics and with different men pulling this way and that. Governors have rebelled, and, for that matter, Emperors have been deposed, or assassinated before this.
jin_waiting_Waiting	1999	They were allocated a one-bedroom apartment, which needed a lot of cleaning. For a week, in the evenings they brushed the cobwebs off the ceilings, scrubbed the floors and doors, painted the rusty bed that Lin had borrowed from the Section of General Affairs, and scoured the cooking range. They cleaned the windowpanes, which were speckled with fly droppings, and sealed the cracks around the window with flour-paste and strips of newspaper. The northern wall of the bedroom had some crevices; when it was windy outside, cold air would surge in, making the wallpaper vibrate with eerie noises. Two masons were sent over by the Logistics Department; they filled the crevices with mortar and then whitewashed all the walls. In addition to the cleaning and repairing, Lin had to buy a large amount of candies, branded cigarettes, fruit, and wine. At the time these fancy things were in short supply, and he could get them only through the back door. Also, he was trying to buy a black-and-white TV set, which required a coupon he didn’t have. So in the evening he bicycled about the city visiting people who might be able to help him, and he often returned late at night. Meanwhile Manna had a cold; she was coughing a lot.
evanovich_twelve_sharp_Twelve_Sharp	2006	Lived her whole life in Miami. Nothing derogatory in her credit file. Her banking history showed a steady money stream from Ranger. No criminal history. She married Ronald Martine eight years ago. They bought a house shortly after they were married, and they were still at that same address. Ronald Martine was seven years older than his wife. Also a high school graduate. No college, but he had gone to school to repair air-conditioning systems and had been working at his trade for eighteen years. Both seemed to be very stable. There were two other Martine children, a seven-year-old girl and a four-year-old boy. They attended the local Catholic church. You couldn’t get much cleaner than Rachel and Ronald Martine. RangeManoso showed up on the Virginia business report. Described as bail enforcement and fugitive apprehension. The business had leased office space in Arlington. The proprietor was Rxyzzlo Xnelos Zzuvemo. In six months of operation it had incurred a long list of delinquent bills, “I love the way he’s coded his name every time it pops up in a data base,” Lula said. “It’s genius.” “This doesn’t sound right,” Connie said. “Ranger runs a tight business. He pays his bills on time.”
rice_the_witching_hour_The_Witching_Hour	1990	But when Antha died she had the emerald around her neck. The question is obvious. Why was Antha wearing the emerald on that day of all days? Was it the wearing of the emerald that precipitated the fatal argument? And if the scratch marks on Antha’s face were not self-inflicted, did Carlotta try to scratch out Antha’s eyes, and if so why? Whatever the case, the house on First Street was once again shrouded in secrecy. Antha’s plans for a restoration were never carried out. After furious arguments in the offices of Mayfair and Mayfair—Carlotta stormed out once, actually breaking the glass on the door—Cortland went so far as to petition the court for custody of baby Deirdre. Clay Mayfair’s grandson Alexander also came forward. He and his wife, Eileen, had a lovely mansion in Metairie. They could officially adopt the child or just take her informally, whatever Carlotta would allow. Amanda Grady Mayfair told our undercover society man, Allan Carver, “Cortland wants me to go home to take care of the baby. I tell you I feel so sorry for that baby. But I can’t go back to New Orleans after all these years.” Carlotta all but laughed in the face of these “do-gooders,” as she called them.
kahn_return_of_the_jedi_Return_of_the_Jedi	1983	The room was dim except for the light cables running either side of the elevator shaft, carrying power and information through the space station. Vader walked across the sleek black steel floor, past the humming giant converter engines, up the short flight of steps to die platform level upon which sat the Emperor’s throne. Beneath this platform, off to the right, was the mouth of the shaft that delved deeply into the pit of the battle station, down to the very core of the power unit. The chasm was black, and reeked of ozone, and echoed continuously in a low, hollow rumble. At the end of the overhanging platform was a wall, in the wall, a huge, circular observation window. Sit- ting in an elaborate control-chair before the window, staring out into space, was the Emperor. The uncompleted half of the Death Star could be seen immediately beyond the window, shuttles and transports buzzing around it, men with tight-suits and rocket-packs doing exterior construction or surface work. In the near-distance beyond all this activity was the jade green moon Endor, resting like a jewel on the black velvet of space—and scattered to infinity, the gleaming diamonds that were the stars. The Emperor sat, regarding this view, as Vader approached from behind.
jones_leaving_atlanta_Leaving_Atlanta	2002	“Brother!” She races toward you in saddle oxfords. When she sees your parents she will greet each of them with the same unchecked glee. Y)u give her a candy necklace and an Astro Pop. She cannot help being good. Although you don’t hold Sister’s hand as you walk to the bus stop, you hover protectively near. A parental mandate recently issued requires that you actually wrap your fingers around hers to thwart child-nappers. "Vbu understand the sentiment behind the decree but you are too well aware of the flaws in its logic. You’d have assumed that your parents would have noticed by now that nearly all of the bodies found in Atlanta’s woods, creeks, and fields are male. Someone should be assigned to hold your hand. Nevertheless, you keep an eye on Sister. Last spring, she came close to being flattened by a dilapidated Impala as she darted into the street to retrieve a runaway dodge ball in a burst of near-fatal altruism. You are in sight of the bus stop when you become aware of the regular thump of footsteps on cold red clay. The earth absorbs the sound but you feel the tremors through the thin soles of your loafers. Sister, looking for her reflection in a lollipop, doesn’t notice. You take her hand.
forna_the_memory_of_love_The_Memory_of_Love	2010	There were troublemakers among the student fraternity. As it happened I had done well enough over the years to build a house, an ambition I had nurtured for some time. The new house was in the west of the city. I had the good fortune to be able to buy several town lots together and the house boasted a sizeable garden. After years on campus where the grounds were taken care of by a team of workers, Saffia had her own garden again. She set to work terracing the land, planting an orchard towards the rear, lawns and formal beds at the front. As for me, my work at the university kept me occupied. The Dean had been promoted to the position of Vice Chancellor. There were shortages and frequent power cuts. There were strikes and petitions - the young by then so different from my day. They seemed to think we could magic light out of the darkness and were convinced they must find somebody to blame. We had been married for twenty-one years and lived in our new house for four. It doesn’t make me proud to tell you I was elsewhere that day. So it happened that Babagaleh was first to hear the news. This is your first rainy season, so you see now how the rains behave in this part of the world.
souljah_the_coldest_winter_ever_The_Coldest_Winter_Ever	1999	I had to work several hustles to keep my commissary in livable condition. Then, of course, there were always the suckers who could be shook down if things got too bleak. Fighting didn’t mean nothing to me now. There was no nervousness or nothing. I just did whatever was necessary. There ain’t no special clothes or fashion in here. When I first came, I tried to make myself stand out the way I always did. But after while, you’d figure, what the fuck for? You can’t get no dick. I don’t want no pussy. There’s no one to impress here except those broke-down broads. Every now and then, I do hair for cigarettes or stamps or cookies. Most of the time, I keep my own hair braided. It’s so long that bitches get jealous. I have to braid it, then roll it up and tuck the ends under just not to have extra beef. But me, Natalie, Zakia, Chante, and a bunch of Brooklyn girls got a crew up in here. We got a little name for ourselves. Even Simone’s tryna be down with us for her own protection. She finally stopped blaming me for the death of her daughter. Or at least she puts up a good front.
lewis_arrowsmith_elmer_gantry_dodsworth_Dodsworth	1929	Oh, there’s more ease in living here! Your neighbors don’t spy on you and gossip and feel it’s their business to tell you how to live, way we do at home. Not that I’ve got anything to hide. I haven’t been drunk for thirty years. I’ve been true to my wife—unless you count one time when I kissed a litde widow on the Baltic, and by golly that’s as far as it went! But if there’s one thing that would make me go out for all the vices I ever heard of, it would be the thought of a lot of morality hounds sneaking after me all the time, the way they do in the States. And you get better servants here—yes, and the servants themselves like their work a deuce of a sight better than our red-neck hired girls in America, because they’re skilled, they’re respected here, they’re secure, they don’t have the womenfolks nosing into their ice-boxes and love-letters all day long! And business——- Our greatest American myth is that we’re so much more efficient than these Britishers and the folks on the Continent. All this high-pressure salesmanship bunk! Why say, I’ll bet that stuff antagonizes more customers than it ever catches.
patterson_mary_mary_Mary,_Mary	2005	“Maddux, I’ve got Alex Cross here. He’s making a pretty good argument for holding off on Mary Wagner, just long enough to interview her.” “How much more do you think we’re going to get on her?” Fielding asked. “It’s done. We’ve got plenty to take her in.” “It’s all circumstantial,” I said into the speakerphone. “You’ll have to let her go.” “Yeah, well I’m working on that.” “What do you mean?” I asked, already starting to fume. “What aren’t you telling us, Maddux? What’s the point of shutting us out?” He ignored my legitimate question with one of his trademark stony silences. “Listen, between LAPD and the Bureau, she’s under constant surveillance; she hasn’t shown any sign of making a move. We know her timetable. Let me just talk to her at home. This could be a last chance to get her in a nondefensive state.” I hated the conciliatory tone of my voice, but I knew the interview with Mary could be important. “Detective, I know you and I have our disagreements,” I said, “but we’re both going for a quick resolve here.
alvarez_in_the_time_of_butterflies_In_the_Time_of_the_Butterflies	1994	You have nothing to be ashamed of! Minerva says, all fierce. She is doing my face in sculpture so I’m supposed to sit still. Yes, the authorities are now encouraging us to start hobbies— again, the OAS on their backs. Minerva has taken up sculpture, in prison of all places. She had Mama bring her some plaster and tools. After each session, Santiclo is supposed to collect them, but he’s pretty lenient with us. So we now have a couple of little scalpels in our hiding place along with our other contraband, the knife, the sewing scissors, the pocket mirror, four nails, and the file, and of course, this diario. What is this arsenal for? I ask Minerva. What are we going to do with it? Sometimes I think revolution has become something like a habit for Minerva. Friday June 24, hot as hell in here We now have two new women guards. Minerva thinks they’ve been assigned to us to impress the OAS with the prison system’s delicacy towards women prisoners. Delicacy! These women are as tough or tougher than the men, especially the fat one Valentina. She’s nice enough to us politicals but a real witch to the others, seeing as the OAS won’t be investi- gating their treatment.
russell_swamplandia_Swamplandia!	2012	The dikes and levees that the Army Corps had recommended for flood control had turned the last virgin mahogany stands into dust bowls; in other places, wildfire burned the peat beds down to witchy fingers of lime. Now the melaleucas had formed an “impermeable monoculture.” That meant a forest with just one kind of tree in it. Most of the gladesmen had long ago abandoned the dream of farming their islands. You could sum up the response of the Army Corps of Engineers and the swamp developers in one word, said our dad: “Oops!” Forest fires raged and burned the swamp down to peat. Frosts came and a man could break his knife trying to slice through a glade tomato. By 1950, the dream of drainage was largely dead. The Army Corps of Engineers changed its objective from draining the “wasteland” of the swamp islands to saving them. Unfortunately for my family, the melaleucas were still root-committed to the old plan, the drainage scheme. They swallowed fifty acres a day. Back in May, Kiwi had discovered a punky infestation behind the Gator Pit: saplings the width of mop handles. The Bigtree men swung axes into them, bled them, flooding the world with the smell of camphor. We kept cutting them down, and the earth kept raising them.
phillips_cambridge_Cambridge	1991	My rapid acquisition of their language shocked them. I simply explained that I had tarried a while amongst English people, but when pressed I would say no more. I had determined that I would be a strange figure, quiet and reserved, for I intended my residence on this plantation to be brief, and felt that it would be unfair to begin to deliver a sermon I might never have the opportunity to conclude. I hoped that none amongst them would take offence at my reluctance to participate fully in their slave lives. Certainly the girl seemed content, and soon I came to develop a true affection for my odd female companion, and she for me. I told the girl nothing of my Anna, not wishing to divulge, in this place of unhappiness, anything of my previous felicity and taint my Anna’s memory by association. Young and aloof, my unlikely escort, I quickly discovered, occupied among her slave-peers a position of respect occasioned by a formidable suspicion of her person. Her history was a sad one. Bom on the plantation, her mother had died shortly after her delivery, and her pagan father naturally spumed her. At ten years of age she was married to a man twenty years her senior. For three years this man treated her brutally while she refused to produce children.
forsyth_the_odessa_file_The_Odessa_File	1973	There weren’t all that many of those awarded, and very few to mere Army captains. It would have been millions to one against two similar officers dying in the same area on the same day.” Roschmann knew he was up against a man whom no argument could influence. He stared, as if mesmerized, at the gun. “You’re going to kill me. You mustn’t do that, not in cold blood. You wouldn’t do that. Please, Miller, I don’t want to die.” Miller leaned forward and began to talk. “Listen to me, you repulsive piece of dog shit. I’ve listened to you and your twisted mouthings till I'm sick to my guts. Now you’re going to listen to me while I make up my mind whether you die here or rot in some jail for the rest of your days. “You had the nerve, the damned crass nerve, to tell me that you, you of all people, were a patriotic German. I’ll tell you what you are. You and your kind were and are the filthiest crap that was ever elevated from the gutters of this country to positions of power. And in twelve years you smeared my country with your dirt in a way that has never happened throughout our history.
gaines_in_my_fathers_house_In_My_Father’s_House	1978	Phillip could see Johanna calling to him; he could see the oldest boy reaching out his small arms. But the other two children sitting in the bed of the wagon neither saw anything nor heard anything. Phillip woke from the dream screaming, his bedclothes wet with perspiration. He didn’t go back to sleep at all that night, and the next day while sitting behind his desk in the office he quit his reading or writing several times to reflect on the dream again. He could still see Johanna in the black overcoat and black hat waving her arms and calling to him. But why black? Why black? He had never known her to wear anything but the brightest colors when she was here. Why black now? He could still see the oldest boy at the tailgate of the wagon reaching out his small arms. But the other two children went on playing as if nothing was happening round them. He ran as hard as he could to catch them, but the wagon slowly and steadily moved farther and farther away. Phillip stood at the v/indow looking out on the street, looking and waiting. But the boy didn’t go by. No one went by. The street, gray, empty, cold. The tree in the pasture across the street, gray, leafless, cold.
caldwell_captains_and_kings_Captains_and_the_Kings	1972	The sharpness of the remark caught Rory without an immediate response. Then he sighed, dropped his head, looked mournful. “Mama,” he said, “is absolutely terrified of my father. She is in very poor health. An annoyed word from him would crush her, perhaps destroy her.” He saw his mother’s short obese body and engorged complexion and snapping eyes, and visualized her as a drooping flower. It almost made him laugh out loud. “But she has told me secretly of her will. I—I receive—though I pray that her health will improve and that God will spare her for many years to her devoted family—three-quarters of her fortune. Some”—and now Rory let his wide blue eyes wander to a musing distance—“fifteen million dollars.” “Fifteen million dollars,” whispered Miss Chisholm. She calculated interest. “It is invested, secure?” “Good as gold,” said Rory. He resolutely would not look at Marjorie and the black mischief in her eyes. “Mama doesn’t believe in using even the interest on interest, not to speak of capital, which is sacred.” “She is in poor health, you say?” said Miss Chisholm in a sad voice. “Very poor. Heart, I believe.”
loos_gentlemen_prefer_blondes_Gentlemen_Prefer_Blondes	1926	Well Mr. Abels was much to promanent to waste his time with anyone like Lester, but Lester and his boy friends were talking so much against the Breene family in public places, that he finally made an appointment to let Lester come to his office and hear him out. Well, Claude begged and begged to be allowed to accompany Lester, because after all Mr. Abels was very, very full of power and Claude was an inveterant lion hunter at heart. So, Lester gave in at last and let Claude go along. And when they went into Mr. Abel’s polished suite of mahogany offices, Claude’s manners were full of reverants. For Claude believed that using the gentle tacktics would get them farther in the long run. So, as soon as they were shown to a seat, Claude spoke up and said, “Mr. Abels, we’re thrilled to be here! Lester and I often sit at home in the long evenings and read one of your famous speeches just to improve our minds.* So then Lester spoke up in quite a harsh tone and said, “You poor sap, when did we ever sit at home and read anythingt" Well Claude was visibly upset, and said, “Now don’t be low! What kind of swine is Mr. Abels going to think we are?
west_the_living_is_easy_The_Living_Is_Easy	1948	Simeon had come to propose the day after his father’s funeral. His mood was somber as befitting both occasions. For there were three burials in a row, the least in importance Carter Binney’s, because it was only his mortal remains, and second, Simeon’s single blessedness, because from its dust was formed the man of compromise, and first, because of its frightfulness, the Catholic heart that was buried alive. Listening to Simeon’s proposal the Duchess poised her soul between good and evil, as she saw them, knowing, from knowing her mother, that there is no interlocking of separated worlds, but inescapably forced to make the choice that would cause the most suffering, that would flog her spirit to its utmost humility, that would burden her with the cross. But there was nothing in the imperial eyes to indicate this inherited disposition to suffer. Simeon, looking at her without awe, but using the same yardstick of her bearing and ash-blondness by which Cleo measured her aloofness — Simeon thought that she was immune to emotion. When the brief exchanges were over, the Duchess said, “I hope you will consent to a joint account. I want very much to help The Clarion.” Simeon rose. He said stiffly: “I am not marrying you for your money.
levin_three_by_ira_levin_The_Stepford_Wives	1972	They brought bracing coldness into the entrance hall. “Hi, Joanna, how’d it go?” Dave said, rubbing leather-gloved hands; and Bobbie, wrapped in her raccoon coat, said, “I hope Adam wasn’t any trouble.” “Not a speck,” Joanna said. “You look marvelous, both of you!” “We feel marvelous,” Dave said, and Bobbie smiled and said, “It was a lovely weekend. Thank you for helping us manage it.” “Forget it,” Joanna said. “I’m going to plunk Pete with you one of these weekends.” “We’ll be glad to take him,” Bobbie said, and Dave said, “Whenever you want, just say the word. Adam? Time to go!” “He’s up in Pete’s room.” Dave cupped his gloved hands and shouted, “Ad-am! We're here! Get your stuff!” “Take your coats off,” Joanna said. “Got to pick up Jon and Kenny,” Dave said, and Bobbie said, “I’m sure you’d like some peace and quiet. It must have been hectic.” “Well, it hasn’t been my most restful Sunday,” Joanna said.
krantz_scruples_Scruples	1978	Take your glasses off and kiss me a whole lot” “Excessive, unrelieved, unrelenting, untidy, unnatural, unprovoked, incessant, constant, permanent unendurable, intolerable strainl” “Silly boy—come here.” “Well, if you’re not I am under considerable strain, and it’s not good for the baby either. He is under strain, so he wakes me up and then I start to worry. He wouldn’t want that to happen, but he can’t help it. Let’s do it.” “Sleep in different beds?” “Never! What a terrible thing to suggest. Dolly, apologize!” “I’m sorry, Lester. What were you talking about? Why did I apologize? I thinkTm drunk, too. How could raspberries make you drunk?” “Let’s—let’s just take a lil’ drive down 606 South Olive Street where the Chief said the envelopes were kept and take a lil’ peek at ’em. Put you out of your strain, get a good night’s sleep for a change—be fresh for tomorrow night If you know you didn’t win, you’ll be relaxed tomorrow, not fair for a poor pregnant fil’ person to have to go through the strain of not knowin’—cruel and inhuman, I say.”
adams_the_hitchhikers_guide_to_the_galaxy_The_Hitchhiker_s_Guide_to_the_Galaxy	1979	“Will you open up the exit hatch, please, computer?” said Zaphod, trying not to get angry. “Not until whoever said that owns up,” urged the computer, stamping a few synapses closed. “Oh God,” muttered Ford, slumped against a bulkhead. He started to count to ten. He was desperately 137 worried that one day sentient life forms would forget how to do this. Only by counting could humans demonstrate their independence of computers. “Come on,” said Eddie sternly. “Computer ...” began Zaphod. “I’m waiting,” interrupted Eddie. “I can wait all day if necessary....” “Computer ...” said Zaphod again, who had been trying to think of some subtle piece of reasoning to put the computer down with, and had decided not to bother competing with it on its own ground, “if you don’t open that exit hatch this moment I shall zap straight off to your major data banks and reprogram you with a very large ax, got that?” Eddie, shocked, paused and considered this. Ford carried on counting quietly. This is about the most aggressive thing you can do to a computer, the equivalent of going up to a human being and saying Blood ... blood ... blood .. . blood ...
porter_the_collected_stories_of_katherine_anne_porter_The_Collected_Stories_of_Katherine_Anne_Porter	1966	not worth all this abominable ... the end . . .” Carefully she tore the letter into narrow strips and touched a lighted match to them in the coal grate. Early the next morning she was in the bathtub when the jani-tress knocked and then came in, calling out that she wished to examine the radiators before she started the furnace going for the winter. After moving about the room for a few minutes, the jani-tress went out, closing the door very sharply. She came out of the bathroom to get a cigarette from the package in the purse. The purse was gone. She dressed and made coffee, and sat by the window while she drank it. Certainly the janitress had taken the purse, and certainly it would be impossible to get it back without a great deal of ridiculous excitement. Then let it go. With this decision of her mind, there rose coincidentally in her blood a deep almost murderous anger. She set the cup carefully in the center of the table, and walked steadily downstairs, three long flights and a short hall and a steep short flight into the basement, where the janitress, her face streaked with coal dust, was shaking up the furnace. “Will you please give me back my purse? There isn’t any money in it.
marshall_praisesong_for_the_widow_Praisesong_for_the_Widow	1983	Shouting it in her face. As the dances continued to unfold she discovered they followed a set pattern. First, from around the yard would come the lone voice—cracked, atonal, old, yet with the carrying power of a field holler or a call. Quickly, to bear it up, came the response: other voices and the keg drums. And the one or two or sometimes three old souls whose nation it was would sing their way into the circle and there dance to the extent of their strength. Saluting their nations. Summoning the Old Parents. Inviting them to join them in the circle. And invariably they came. A small land crab might suddenly scuttle past the feet of one of the dancers. A hard-back beetle would be seen zooming drunkenly (from all the Jack Iron imbibed earlier) around their heads. Sometimes it was nothing more than a moth, a fly, a mosquito. In whimsical disguise they made their presence known. Kin, visible, metamorphosed and invisible, repeatedly circled the cleared space together, until the visible ones, grown tired finally, would go over to the lead drummer—the older man with the handkerchief around his head—and lightly touch the goatskin top of his drum, and the music would instantly come to a halt. “Cromanti.
mccullough_the_thorn_birds_The_Thorn_Birds	1977	After all, now she knew he loved her; if she had sorted herself out sufficiently to realize she loved him too, she would have come straight out with it in her letter. Yet why had she returned to London instead of going to Greece with Dane? He knew he shouldn’t hope it was because of him, but despite his misgivings, hope began to color his thoughts so cheerfully he buzzed his secretary. It was 10 a.m. Greenwich Mean Time, the best hour to find her at home. “Get me Miss O’Neill’s London flat,” he instructed, and waited the intervening seconds with a frown pulling at the inner corners of his brows. “Rain!” Justine said, apparently delighted. “Did you get my letter?” “This minute.” After a delicate pause she said. “Arid will you come to dinner soon?” “I’m going to be in England this coming Friday and Saturday. Is the notice too short?” “Not if Saturday evening is all right with you. Pm in rehearsal for Desdemona, so Friday’s out.” “Desdemona?” “That’s right, you don’t know! Clyde wrote to me in Rome and offered me the part. Marc Simpson as Othello, Clyde directing personally. Isn’t it wonderful?
hulme_the_bone_people_The_Bone_People	1983	Sleeping yeah. It can’t be sunbathing. She’s lying wrapped in a rug under an umbrella. He turns his attention back to the cliff above the black bach. There is a hole there, two feet in diameter. He can see in for nearly a yard, then it tunnels away in a curve and the shadows become too dark to see anything. He’d like to wriggle partly in, stretch his arms out, explore, but there might be something quiet, with teeth, waiting further up. “It’s a rabbithole,” Kerewin said. “There’s still a few of them round here. The country holds a drive every few months with guns and dogs and a helluva hullabaloo, but there’s always a couple missed it seems. Rabbits, I mean, not holes_” They kill them then, he thinks. Maybe there’s nothing down the hole now. Maybe they’re all dead. He finds a stick and inserts it cautiously. It goes into the shadowed part, but he can feel more space beyond its end, even with his arm stretched in up to the shoulder. He goes along to Kerewin and takes her hand and shakes her awake, and begins explaining. How can I find out what’s there? he asks with writing in the end.
forsyth_the_day_of_the_jackal_The_Day_of_the_Jackal	1971	The Colonel said simply “Rolland” and waited while his operative at the other end identified himself. Rolland then did the same by introducing into the first sentence of his conversation the correct prearranged word. A listener would have learned that he had received information that his car, which had been under repair, was mended, and could be collected at the Colonel’s convenience. Colonel Rolland thanked his informant, and returned to the table. Within five minutes he was excusing himself with urbanity, explaining that he faced a hard day in the morning and ought to get his ration of sleep. Ten minutes later he was alone in his car, speeding through the still crowded city streets towards the quieter faubourg of Porte des Lilas. He reached his office soon after one in the morning, took off his immaculate dark jacket, ordered coffee from the night staff, and rang for his assistant. The top copy of Kowalski’s confession came with the coffee. The first time, he read the twenty-six pages of the dossier quickly, trying to grasp the gist of what the demented legionnaire had been saying. Something in the middle caught his eye, causing him to frown, but he read on to the end without a pause. His second reading was slower, more cautious, giving greater concentration to each paragraph.
davenport_shark_dialogues_Shark_Dialogues	1995	That night when there was nothing left, when Duke’s chest pain was so intense, he couldn’t lie down, couldn’t sit, Pono knew it was time. While the house slept, she wheeled him to the car, lifted him slowly and clumsily into the old Buick, covered him with blankets, and eased down the driveway. He seemed half conscious during the drive, leaning against her shoulder like a child. She drove on Mamalahoa Highway for a while, past Captain Cook, Kealakekua, Kainali'u, Holua-hoa, driving back through their past, life lived in reverse. Finally she turned onto Highway 19, heading north toward the Kohala Coast. An hour later, as they approached the port town of Kawaihae, Pono took a sharp left onto a barely visible dirt road. Duke sat up, fully conscious, eerily alert, pointing to a huge temple on a grassy promontory hovering over them. “Pu'ukohola!” He cried. Pu'ukohola Heiau. One of the most sacred of all temples, place of worship for Kamehameha 1, The Lonely One, greatest of all Hawaiian kings. Also sacrificial temple for his enemies. Halfway down the hill was a smaller temple, Mailikini where commoners—artisans and soldiers— worshiped in times of war. Both temples overlooked a large body of water.
orwell_1984_1984	1949	He shut his eyes again. “How many fingers am I holding up, Winston?” “I don’t know. I don’t know. You will kill me if you do that again. Four, five, six—in all honesty I don’t know.” “Better,” said O’Brien. A needle slid into Winston’s arm. Almost in the same instant a blissful, healing warmth spread all through his body. The pain was already half-forgotten. He opened his eyes and looked up gratefully at O’Brien. At sight of the heavy, lined face, so ugly and so intelligent, his heart seemed to turn over. If he could have moved he would have stretched out a hand and laid it on O’Brien’s arm. He had never loved him so deeply as at this moment, and not merely because he had stopped the pain. The old feeling, that at bottom it did not matter whether O’Brien was a friend or an enemy, had come back. O’Brien was a person who could be talked to. Perhaps one did not want to be loved so much as to be understood. O’Brien had tortured him to the edge of lunacy, and in a little while, it was certain, he would send him to his death. It made no difference.
morrison_tar_baby_Tar_Baby	1981	That it was a man. "Let’s change the subject,” he said. His voice was soft, a little sad, it seemed to her, and he gazed out into the water as he spoke. Fake, she thought. He’s faking remorse and he thinks I am impressed by it. "I hate killers,” she said. “All killers. Babies. They don’t understand anything but they want everybody to understand them. Lotta nerve, don’t you think?” “Killing doesn’t take nerve. It takes no nerve, no nerves at all.” “I don’t feel sorry for you, you know. I think you ought to be in jail. So you can stop looking pitifully into the sea and thinking how terrible life’s been to you.” He glanced at her, briefly, as though she were a distraction from the major work of looking at the sea. “Sorry,” he murmured. “I didn’t mean to. I wasn’t thinking about me. I was thinking about the person I killed. And that is pitiful.” “Then why’d you do it?” “There is no why. The reason doesn’t hold. I mean it wasn’t a good reason; it was a mistake.”
grant_bitch_Bitch	1979	He’s so good, he hardly works none at all—maybe once a year if he feels like it. When he stings, he stings big! The remainder of his time? Ha! Guess what he told me he does? I almost busted a gut when I heard.” “C’mon, tell me,” Fox urged. “What did he say he does?” “You’re gonna’ flip, Fox,” Dillon laughed. “One night we’re sittin’ around, just him and me and about half-a-dozen naked zanzies, sniffin’ coke off the top. Get this, Fox. He takes a sniff and then settles them big, black eyes of his on me. He says: “What do I do with the rest of my leisure time? Well, the most strenuous thing I do is calisthenics, because in our mutual occupation nothing is more important than that is. It would be too goddam bad if a guy like you or me was to get tired halfway up some skyscraper with no place to take a breather. Aside from that, I don’t do anything except rest-and-dress, and manipulate classy, rich, bitches with finesse.” Even Dallas had to laugh at the arrogance of the mysterious Haitian.
patterson_along_came_a_spider_Along_Came_a_Spider	1993	“Boo!” A couple of kids in class participated in the lesson. Within reason, Vivian Kim encouraged this kind of involvement. “Boo is absolutely right,” she said. “Hiss, too. Anyway, at this moment in our history, Mr. Nixon stood before the nation, before people like you and me.” Vivian Kim arranged herself as if she were at a speaking podium. She began to do her version of Richard Nixon for the class. Ms. Kim made her face dark and gloomy. She shook her head from side to side. “I want you to know. .. that I have no intention whatever of ever walking away from the job that the American people elected me to do for the people of the United States.” Vivian Kim paused on the actual words from Nixon’s infamous speech. It was like a held note in a bad but powerful opera. The classroom of twenty-four children was silent. For the moment, she had completely won their attention. It was a teacher’s nirvana, however short-lived. Nice, Vivian Kim thought to herself. There was a brittle tap, tap, tap on the glass pane of the classroom door. The magical mood was broken. “Boo! Hiss,” Vivian Kim muttered. “Yes?
drury_advise_and_consent_Advise_and_Consent	1960	This was an opposition he had known since spring he must meet, for their paths had crossed in April at the Governors Conference at White Sulphur Springs, and sparks had flown at once, lending the conference an extra excitement for the public and the press. Orrin as a former governor and former chairman of the Conference, as a leading Senator and a leading candidate for the presidential nomination, had been invited to address the State Banquet that always climaxed the annual gathering of state executives. It was already clear by then that the Governor of California intended to make a try for it too, and the drama of their meeting was heightened still more when the conference chairman, the Governor of West Virginia, suddenly announced that he was ill and turned the gavel over to the Governor of California for the evening. This obvious political move, outcome of an obvious political arrangement, angered both the Senator from Illinois and those governors, and their number was sizeable, who looked with favor upon his candidacy. For a tense and well-publicized hour or two he had let it get about that there was some serious question as to whether he would speak at all; when he did it was with an air of elaborate courtesy all around that managed to survive the Governor of California’s graceful and politically pointed fifteen-minute introduction.
barclay_melal_Melal:_A_Novel_of_the_Pacific	2002	The drinking water turned yellow. It tasted bitter. So did the fish caught that day, having been powdered while in water at the bottom of the canoes. By that night people began to vomit. Their skin and their eyes and their mouths became inflamed, burning hot. Iia, who had stayed inside and was already feeling sick enough not to want to eat, did not suffer as much as many others, and when everyone was evacuated by seaplane to Kwajalein two days later, she only had to put up with some diarrhea, vomiting, and a little burning and itching. They were confined to a Navy ship in the Kwajalein lagoon, while doctors took their blood and samples of their skin and bone. Iia said she watched the faces of her friends and relatives become red with pain, and after about ten days the hair on their heads and their body hair was falling away, their burned skin was peeling off in patches, their fingernails were becoming discolored and falling off, their fingers bleeding. Because they were never warned or evacuated, and the Americans had to know which way the wind was blowing, some of the people of Rongelap complained that they had been poisoned on purpose, so that the Americans could test what happens to people as a result of their bombs. She never believed it.
tademy_citizens_creek_Citizens_Creek	2014	“This one is beauty in the making,” he said. Rose fought not to read anything into a comparison. Her younger sister was stunning, and fawned over for her ebony hair, her lively eyes, her smooth, dark skin. By the time they reached Gramma Amy at the fire pit, they’d attracted followers, but Elizabeth had no intention of giving up her place beside Uncle Harry, playing with the soft of his whiskers, a-pout when he talked to anyone else. Gramma Amy dished their visitor up a big bowl of sofki and cha-cha, and he lit into the still-warm stew as if it were a feast. “Go rouse your grandfather,” Gramma Amy said to Rose, as beguiled as everyone else with Uncle Harry. “Time to see in the day.” Rose sped to the tepee and pushed at her grandfather’s shoulder, quickly standing back. Sometimes Grampa Cow Tom woke hard, and woe to the innocent standing in the way when he came to himself from a dream. “Yes?” he mumbled, without opening his eyes. His tone was neither friendly nor harsh, reserving the right to go either way. “Harry Island’s come.” Cow Tom opened his eyes then, looked her through. “Here?”
kostova_the_historian_The_Historian	2005	It had a portrait of Vlad Drakulya painted on it, and Latin words across it — perhaps painted also, since the Traveller didn’t mention engraving and was struck by the lack of the usual cross to mark the gravestone. The epitaph, which I copied down with care — out of what instinct I didn’t know — was in Latin.’ Hugh dropped his voice, glanced behind him, and stubbed out his cigarette in the ashtray on our table. “ After I’d written it down and struggled with it a while, I read my translation aloud: “Reader, unbury him with a —” You know how it goes. The rain was still coming down hard outside, and a window that had got loose somewhere in the library slammed open and shut, so I felt a breath of damp air nearby. I must have been jumpy, because I knocked over my teacup and a drop of tea spilled on the book. While I was wiping this up and feeling dreadful about my clumsiness, I noticed my watch — it was already one o’clock and I knew I ought to get home to dinner. There didn’t seem to be anything else relevant to look at there, so I put away the books, thanked the housekeeper, and went back down the lanes between all those June roses.
greene_our_man_in_havana_Our_Man_in_Havana	1958	You remember the culture I was making?’ ‘Yes.’ ‘Perhaps if they hadn’t destroyed my will to live, they wouldn’t have persuaded me so easily.’ ‘Do you really think . . . ?’ ‘I only ask you to be careful.’ ‘Can I use your telephone?’ ‘Yes.’ Wormold rang up his house. Did he only imagine that slight click which indicated that the tapper was at work? Beatrice answered. He said, ‘Is everything quiet?’ ‘Yes.’ ‘Wait till I come. Is Milly all right?’ ‘Fast asleep.’ ‘I’m coming back.’ Dr Hasselbacher said, ‘You shouldn’t have shown love in your voice. Who knows who is listening?’ He walked with difficulty to the door because of his tight breeches. ‘Good night, Mr Wormold. Here is the Lamb.’ ‘I won’t need it any more.’ ‘Milly may want it. Would you mind saying nothing to anyone about this—this—costume? I know that I am absurd, but I loved those days. Once the Kaiser spoke to me.’ ‘What did he say?’ ‘He said, “I remember you. You are Captain Muller.”’
grisham_the_testament_The_Testament	1999	“I assume the will is somewhat controversial,” the Judge said. “It’s wicked.” His Honor actually smiled. TEN BEFORE HIS most recent crash, Nate had lived in an aging condo in Georgetown, one he’d leased after his last divorce. But it was gone now, a victim of the bankruptcy. So, literally, there was no place for Nate to spend his first night of freedom. As usual, Josh had carefully planned the release. He arrived at Walnut Hill on the appointed day with a duffel bag filled with new and neatly pressed J. Crew shorts and shirts for the trip south. He had the passport and the visa, plenty of cash, lots of directions and tickets, a game plan. Even a first-aid kit. Nate never had the chance to be anxious. He said good-bye to a few members of the staff, but most were busy elsewhere because they avoided departures. He walked proudly through the front door after 140 days of wonderful sobriety; clean, tanned, fit, down 17 pounds to 174, a weight he hadn’t known in twenty years. Josh drove, and for the first five minutes nothing was said. The snow blanketed the pastures, but thinned quickly as they left the Blue Ridge. It was December 22.
jones_from_here_to_eternity_From_Here_to_Eternity	1951	“Just keep that hammer going.” The rockpile was a halfmoon surface quarry that had been worked back maybe forty yards into the hillside. There were two other guards besides the one on the road, one up on top looking down into the arena below, the other off to the right where the cleft petered out into the thin woods that led back toward the wilderness of Mount Kaala, elev 4030 ft and the highest peak on Oahu. At least over there he would be that near to the free wilderness of the mountain. Prew moved over toward that side, carrying the sledge. A gray rockdust-grimed gnome rested its hammer, looking like one of the Mountain People out of Rip Van Winkle, or one of Richard Wagner’s smithy-dwarfs grimy from deep caves in the hidden mountain fastnesses. It put a hand against its back and straightened itself and grinned at him feverishly, teeth and eyes wolfish white in the gray seams of the face. “Hello, you son of a bitch,” Angelo Maggio said. “How are you?” “My back hurts,” Prew grinned. “Ha. You should have seen mine, buddy,” Angelo grinned wolfishly. “Blacknblue for two weeks. Every time I took a piss I thought I had the clap for sure.”
chandler_the_big_sleep_The_Big_Sleep	1939	A pretty, spoiled and not very bright little girl who had gone very, very wrong, and nobody was doing anything about it. To hell with the rich. They made me sick. I rolled a cigarette in my fingers and pushed some books out of the way and sat on the end of the black desk. I lit my cigarette, puffed a plume of smoke and watched the thumb and tooth act for a while in silence. Carmen stood in front of me, like a bad girl in the principal’s office. “What are you doing here?’’ I asked her finally. She picked at the cloth of her coat and didn’t answer. “How much do you remember of last night?’’ She answered that—with a foxy glitter rising at the back of her eyes. “Remember what? I was sick last night. I was home. ” Her voice was a cautious throaty sound that just reached my ears. “Like hell you were.” Her eyes flicked up and down very swiftly. “Before you went home,” I said. “Before I took you 64 home. Here. In that chair”—I pointed to it—‘‘on that orange shawl. You remember all right." A slow flush crept up her throat. That was something. She could blush.
sinclair_dragons_teeth_i_Dragon_s_Teeth	1943	The sitting itself was rather commonplace. Evidently the munitions king and the spirit of his dead wife had become established on a firm domestic basis. She came right away, as she would have done if he had called her from the next room. She didn’t have much to talk about—which probably would have been the case if her “grass” had not withered and blown away. The only difference was that Zaharoff would have known the “grass” for what it was; but this imitation grass, this mirage, this painting on a fog—what was it? She assured him that she loved him—of which he had never had any doubt. She assured him that she was happy—she had said it many times, and it was good news if it was she. As to the conditions of her existence she was vague, as the spirits generally are. They explain that it is difficult for mortal minds to comprehend their mode of being; and that is a possibility, but also it may be an evasion. The duquesa had given evidence of her reality, but now she seemed to wish that he should take it as settled; that made her happier—and of course he sought to make her happy. CONSCIENCE DOTH MAKE COWARDS 201 But afterward he tormented himself with doubts.
mcguire_beautiful_disaster_Beautiful_Disaster	2011	Wide-eyed, I searched for Travis again. He desperately pointed me out to Shepley. “Get her! Shep! Get Abby!” he said, still trying to push through the crowd. Brady pulled him back into the circle and punched him again. “You're fucking hot, you know that?” Ethan said. I closed my eyes when I felt his mouth on my neck. Anger welled up within me and I pushed him again. "I said get OFF!” I yelled, ramming my knee into his groin. He doubled over, one hand automatically flying to the source of the pain, the other still gripping my shirt, refusing to let go. "You bitch!” he cried. In the next moment, I was free. Shepley’s eyes were wild, staring into Ethan’s as he gripped him by the collar of his shirt. He held Ethan against the wall while he nailed him with his fist repeatedly in the face, stopping only when the blood poured from Ethan’s mouth and nose. Shepley pulled me to the stairs, shoving anyone who stood in his path. He helped me through an open window, and then down a fire escape, catching me when I leapt the few feet to the ground. "You okay, Abby?
allen_anthony_adverse_Anthony_Adverse	1933	Then he felt her arms wind around him in the dark. They were smooth and cool, smoother than his own. Her hand pressed his head onto her breast. He was half blind, and speechless now. All his senses had merged into one feeling. She seemed to be carrying him somewhere. As he stepped through the moony darkness his legs had lost the sensation of weight. “I shall think it is Angela,” he said to himself. But he soon forgot all about Angela. He could remember nothing but himself. To lie face downward on smooth, soft water with warmth lapping you about, that had always been delightful. How easily your arms and legs moved in such an element. The whole surface of the body felt its soft, exquisite touch. To be supported and yet possessed by an ocean of unknown blue depths below you and to cease to think! Yes, it was something like swimming on a transcendent summer night. Although his eyes were tightly closed, he was looking into dim, moonlit depths where blue and green flashes of light and long silver shafts wavered down to the darker depths below him. On the subliminal floor of this ocean in which he was now submerged, the same shadow-play that had haunted the walls of his room seemed to be going on.
shields_the_stone_diaries_The_Stone_Diaries	1995	Love talk, sweetheart talk. The poetiy of rapture. Occasionally Clarentine Flett has read cheap novels - hiding them from her husband who would think them time-wasting - in which people speak to each other in soft ways, but she had never suspected that such pronouncements might be uttered in the houses of ordinary quarry workers in a village such as Tyndall, Manitoba. Nor had she imagined the enrichment of voice or tone that could be brought to these offerings. “Oh, how I love you,” Cuyler Goodwill said to his wife Mercy, crying out to her with a pitch of entreaty which Clarentine Flett has been unable to wipe from her remembrance. It’s been with her all spring, raining down on the dry weave of her daily comings and goings. It’s with her now as she stands beside the clothesline, sneezing and blinking in the brilliant sunshine and fighting a temptation to withdraw for the afternoon. And then an idea comes to her. She would boil up a kettle for tea and invite Mercy to come across and share it. Yes, a nice pot of tea, Clarentine Flett decides. And she’ll take down the best rose tea cups, Royal Albert, that belonged to her mother, and while she’s at it, she’ll set out a plate of jam biscuits.
clancy_sum_of_all_fears_The_Sum_of_All_Fears	1991	There was an interesting idea. “We want to talk to Holtzman.” “What do you mean?” “I mean we and the FBI talk to him, informally of course, to let him know that he may be doing something irresponsible.” “Who came up with that, Marcus?” “Ryan and Murray.” “Really?” She paused, as though considering the matter. “I don’t think that’s a good idea. You know how reporters are. If you have to stroke them, you have to stroke them properly . . . hmm. I can handle that if you wish.” “This really is serious, spinnaker is very important to us.” Cabot tended to repeat himself when he got excited. “I know it. Ryan was pretty clear in his briefing, back when you were ill. You still haven’t confirmed his reports?” Cabot shook his head. “No. Jack went off to England to ask the Brits to nose around, but we don’t expect anything for a while.” “What do you want me to tell Holtzman?” “Tell him that he may be jeopardizing a highly important source. The man could die over this, and the political fallout might be very serious,” Cabot concluded.
andrews_appalachee_red_Appalachee_Red	1978	Baby Sweet had performed her last dance in the Hole, true, but not her last act. Mist’ Ed had watched every single one of these noonday rituals of the girl’s while hidden behind the curtain of an upstairs window of the Big House and on this particular day stood in his place of concealment peeking down at and drooling over the fast rotating movements of Baby Sweet’s high, rounded buttock cheeks and big, cantaloupe-sized breasts jostling loosely beneath her flimsy and much-too-short guano-sack dress. Then when Poor Boy had suddenly appeared and the instant his long pole made contact with his daughter’s swelling, bumping, and gyrating ass, the fat little landowner had stood there behind the curtain and nearly creamed his jeans. He had to control himself to keep from jumping out of the second-floor window and running after the barefoot black gal whose shapely ass he stood watching bouncing downhill and getting lost back in the trees. Mist’ Ed decided right then and there that he was going to get himself some of that Baby Sweet . . . and soon. That evening, following a hurried supper, the landowner went to his bedroom, where he blinked his overseer’s electric light several times, and minutes later the two men were standing alone beneath one of the backyard sheds.
clancy_patriot_games_Patriot_Games	1987	Hit or not, Ryan couldn’t tell. It was just like the exercises at Quantico, he told himself, total chaos, and the side that makes the fewest mistakes wins. “Get aboard!” He stayed up, holding his gun on the other boat. He didn’t turn his head, but felt the others board. Lightning flashed, and Ryan saw the man he’d shot, three red spots on his chest, his eyes and mouth agape in surprise. Shorty was beside him, the side of his head horribly opened. Between the two it seemed a gallon of blood had been poured onto the fiberglass deck. Robby finally arrived and jumped aboard. A head appeared in the other boat, and Ryan fired again, then clambered aboard. “Robby, get us the hell outa here!” Jack moved on hands and knees to the other side, making sure that everyone’s head was down. Jackson moved into the driver’s seat and searched for the ignition. It was set up just like a car, and the keys were in. He turned them, and the engine coughed to life as yet another burst of fire came from the other boat. Ryan heard the sound of bullets hitting the fiberglass. Robby cringed but didn’t move as his hand found the shift lever.
hodge_crick_crack_monkey_Crick_Crack,_Monkey	1970	She was my age and height. She spent the summer holidays at the sea-side with her aunt and uncle who had a delightful orchard with apple trees and pear trees in which sang chaffinches and blue tits, and where one could wander on terms of the closest familiarity with cowslips and honeysuckle. Helen loved to visit her Granny for then they sat by the fireside and had tea with delicious scones and home-made strawberry jam . . . Helen entered and ousted all the other characters in the unending serial that I had been spinning for Toddan and Doolarie from time immemorial. At one time I took to putting on shoes the moment I woke up on mornings and not removing them again until bedtime. This caused some hilarity in the household - ‘What happen, Ma-Davis, yu really takin’-in with ol’-age, ehp’enquired Mikey solic- itously. But when one day I started to put on socks to go to the shop, Tantie was not amused. ‘Look, Madam, when yu start to wash yu own clothes then yu could start to play the monkey - you ever put-on socks to go down in the shop? What it is take yu at-all?’ I loved rainy mornings, for then I could pretend it was winter as I left for school bundled up in an old jacket.
smiley_a_thousand_acres_A_Thousand_Acres	1992	I took down the curtains, the way I did every fall, though usually after harvest, and washed and bleached and ironed them. I was so remarkably comfortable with the discipline of making a good appearance! It was like going back to school or church after a long absence. It had ritual and measure. Tasks proliferated. Once you made a good appearance your goal, you could confidently do things like nest all the spoons and forks in the newly washed and dried silverware tray and face them in the same direction. You could spend an hour or two vacuuming the tops of the floor moldings in the house with an attachment you’d never used before, then go back over what you’d done with a sponge dampened in ammonia, then again with furniture polish. There was cleaning you could do in the bathroom with an old toothbrush that might have repelled you before. There were comers and angles and seams all over the house that could be gotten at The outside of the house itself could be scrubbed from a ladder, with the hose and a brush. The outside second-story windows could be washed. The grass could be edged and trimmed and raked and rolled for the great open invisible eye of The Neighbors to judge and enjoy. Cars, and trucks, of course, could be washed every day.
ferberg_so_big_gutenberg_61686-0_So_Big	1925	So let’s _do_ something. Pa, you’ve probably got it all fixed in your mind long ago. It’s time we heard it. Here Selina was one of the most popular girls in Miss Fister’s school, and lots of people thought the prettiest. And now just look at her!” A flicker of the old flame leaped up in Selina. “Flatterer!” she murmured. Aug Hempel stood up. “If you think giving your whole life to making the boy happy is going to make him happy you ain’t so smart as I took you for. You go trying to live somebody else’s life for them.” “I’m not going to live his life for him. I want to show him how to live it so that he’ll get full value out of it.” “Keeping him out of the Haymarket if the Haymarket’s the natural place for him to be won’t do that. How can you tell! Monkeying with what’s to be. I’m out at the yards every day, in and out of the cattle pens, talking to the drovers and herders, mixing in with the buyers. I can tell the weight of a hog and what he’s worth just by a look at him, and a steer, too.
spencer_the_voice_at_the_back_door_The_Voice_At_The_Back_Door	1957	“You don’t know how I feel about the race question.” They both laughed outright. “We know there’s no need to ask you.” “Then you won’t be interested to know I favor equal rights.” “We’re serious about this, Jimmy. We’ve checked the law: in case of a candidate’s death before election, a write-in vote is legal. We’re willing to get out the quiet word all over the county starting this minute, if you’ll give us the green light.” “Seriously, then, what have you got against Willard Fol-lansbee? He’s still on the ticket.” “Nothing, except nobody wants him. They just don’t want to vote for him. If Harper was still in it, Follansbee would win because Harper favored nigger rights.” “I just got through telling you: I also favor nigger rights.” The two stood silent. “We considered you might at least think of it as a compliment.” “I think you haven’t counted your blessings,” said Jimmy. “If you ask me, you’ve got the perfect candidate and don’t know it. He’s not going to get religion like Bud Grantham and feel like the likker business is not godly.
king_it_It	1986	She had been in a pale green evening gown which her mother declared made her look like a mermaid, and the idea of a kike mermaid was pretty funny, har-de-har-har-har. They had walked with their heads up and she had not wept—not then—but she had understood they weren’t walking back, no, not really; what they had been doing was slinking back, slinking, rhymes with stinking, both of them feeling more Jewish than they had ever felt in their lives, feeling like pawnbrokers, feeling like cattle-car riders, feeling oily, long-nosed, sallow-skinned; feeling like mockies sheenies kikes; wanting to feel angry and not being able to feel angry—the anger came only later, when it didn’t matter. At that moment she had only been able to feel ashamed, had only been able to ache. And then someone had laughed. A high shrill tittering laugh like a fast run of notes on a piano, and in the car she had been able to weep, oh you bet, here is the kike mermaid whose name rhymes with plum just weeping away like crazy. Mike Rosenblatt had put a clumsy, comforting hand on the back of her neck and she had twisted away from it, feeling ashamed, feeling dirty, feeling Jewish.
major_painted_turtle_Painted_Turtle:_Woman_With_Guitar	1988	I didn’t want a memory. My Aunt Franny had once crapped in her pants while standing on a roof watching a ceremonial dance. I wanted my memory to go away for a while. My Aunt Franny was supposed to be rich but stingy. I didn’t believe it. You can count the rich Indians on the fingers of one hand. The door opened and a little Mexican boy with a basket of roses came in. He came over to us. We were the only customers. Meekly, he gestured toward the roses without saying anything. I was about to send him away when I noticed my aunt digging in her purse. She came up with a change purse; she extracted a quarter from it and pressed the silver thing into the boy’s dirty palm. With the other hand, which had an old scar on the back, he gave her one rose. I watched her grin at the boy. Her teeth were green around the gums. My aunt turned to Painted Turtle and told her to hold still, then she stuck the stem of the rose into the Turtle’s hair. It looked pretty there on the side of her head. Yet I felt humiliated, somehow. Still, the Turtle looked pretty damned good with the rose so brightly and sharply contrasted against her silky black hair.
ishiguro_the_remains_of_the_day_The_Remains_of_the_Day	1989	Though Harry here won't have the satisfaction of witnessing my humiliation.' There was laughter, and another exchange of good nights before I was at last allowed to ascend to the sanctuary of this room. I trust I need hardly underline the extent of the discomfort I suffered tonight on account of the unfortunate misunderstanding concerning my person. I can only say now that in all honesty I fail to see how I might reasonably have prevented the situation developing as it did; for by the stage I had become aware of what was occurring, things had gone so far I could not have enlightened these people without creating much embarrassment all round. In any case, regrettable as the whole business was, I do not see that any real harm has been done. I will, after all, take my leave of these people in the morning and presumably never encounter them again. There seems little point in dwelling on the matter. However, the unfortunate misunderstanding aside. there are perhaps one or two other aspects to this evening's events which warrant a few moments' thought - if only because otherwise they may come to niggle one throughout the coming days. For instance, there is the matter of Mr Harry Smith's pronouncements on the nature of 'dignity'. There is surely little in his statements that merits serious consideration.
richter_the_town_The_Town	1951	Like a hammer knocking off pieces of rock with each word, he gave his opinion of Harley Fry and other well-to-do men who pushed him for money and still worse, those who owed him and wouldn’t pay. He hadn’t a dollar, he claimed, but if Chancey sat down and wrote him out an order on Minor Jones, the jobber, he’d sign it. Chancey never did get his supper that night. Minor Jones wasn’t at home when he got there and the boy had to wait a long time. When he did come, he said he had been down town for Saturday night and had spent what cash he had in his pocket. The banks were closed. It was late. He would have to give him an order on Tom Brill, the grocer. If Chancey hurried, he could still get his money from him. The boy left as soon as he was able, but it was ten o’clock and Brill was putting the heavy wooden shutters on his store windows when the boy got there. The grocer stood reading the order, his dour lips moving. “It’s too late to send me to anybody else tonight 1” Chancey begged to forestall him. “Well,” the storekeeper said shrewdly, “sign it ‘Received in full’
dumaurier_my_cousin_rachel_My_Cousin_Rachel	1952	‘Doesn’t that impress you?’ ‘Not a jot,’ I said, ‘and anyway, you won’t find either out on the acres, they’re all harvested.’ When we came to the house I discovered that Seecombe had laid out a cold luncheon of meat and salad in the dining-room, complete with pies and puddings as though we were to sit for dinner. My cousin Rachel glanced at me, her face quite solemn, yet that look of laughter behind her eyes. ‘You are a young man, and you have not finished growing,’ she said. ‘Eat, and be thankful. Put a piece of that pie in your pocket and I will ask you for it when we are on the west hills. I am going upstairs now to dress myself suitably for riding.’ At least, I thought to myself as I tucked into the cold meat with hearty appetite, she does not expect waiting upon or other niceties, she has a certain independence of spirit that would seem, thank the Lord, unfeminine. The only irritation was that my manner with her, which I hoped was cutting, she apparently took in good part and enjoyed. My sarcasm was misread as joviality. I had scarcely finished eating when Solomon was brought round to the door.
warren_all_the_kings_men_All_the_King_s_Men	1947	And you could tell that their muscles didn’t need much loosening up. He was of medium height, perhaps a shade under, with a deep chest and big arms and nothing extra around the waist. His red hair had a crew cut, crinkly red hair showed on his chest above the underwear vest he was wearing instead of a shirt, and his skin was an even baby-pink except for the big blotches of brown freckles on his face and shoulders. In the middle of the freckles his face was all white-toothed grin and the glint of blue eyes. She was a brown lively girl, short brown hair that snapped when she pirouetted, and brown arms and shoulders above the white halter tied over her breasts, and brown legs flashing above white shoes and socks, and a little brown flat tummy between the white shorts and the white halter. They were both pretty young. They began the game right quick, and I watched them over my newspaper. Maybe the red-headed fellow wasn’t trying his hardest, but she was handing them back to him well enough and could make him move around the court. She was even taking a game from him now and then. She was a pretty thing to watch, so light and springy and serious-faced and flashy-legged.
kantor_andersonville_Andersonville	1956	Well, Pa’ll show you. Watch careful. I tell you, Lennie, you’ve baked some mighty good nut loaves in your time, but I never saw the beat of this one. Tommy boy, you spread that butter thick on your nut bread, for Granny always said there wasn’t nothing like butter to put flesh on young bones. Eva, pass your saucer and I’ll ladle you some more of these fine stewed cherries. Nathan Dreyfoos strayed deliberately into remembered satisfactions with his good mind; old Tom Gusset strayed on whatever scraps of wounded fancy could still support him. The house rose before and around him, the small light green house overflowing with Gussets, the house which had supplanted the log house of Tom’s father (the house of squared logs had been moved back to serve as wood- shed, dairy, cob house, general domestic repository. The children gave shows there; the minister thought it wrong for them to engage in theatricals; Tom Gusset shook his finger at the Reverend Mr. Sifert and said that his children could give all the blame shows they wanted to). Gol damn, cried out one new prisoner in the shebang, think I ain’t lonesome for my own wife and folks? Think I don’t wish I was back in Frenchtown with Amy and Lily and Byron?
rice_interview_with_the_vampire_Interview_with_the_Vampire	1976	“A cry rose in me, a wild, consuming cry that came from the bowels of my being, rising up like the wind in that narrow place, the wind that swirled the rain teeming on those ashes, beating at the trace of a tiny hand against the bricks, that golden hair lifting, those loose strands rising, flying upwards. And a blow struck me even as I cried out; and I had hold of something that I believed to be Santiago, and I was pounding against him, destroying him, twisting that grinning white face around with hands from which he couldn’t free himself, hands against which he railed, crying out, his cries mingling with my cries, his boots coming down into those ashes, as I threw him backwards away from them, my own eyes blinded with the rain, with my tears, until he lay back away from me, and I was reaching out for him even as he held out his hand. And the one I was struggling against was Armand. Armand, who was forcing me out of the tiny graveyard into the whirling colors of the ballroom, the cries, the mingling voices, that searing, silver laughter. “And Lestat was calling out, ‘Louis, wait for me; Louis, I must talk to you!’
killens_and_then_we_heard_the_thunder_And_Then_We_Heard_the_Thunder	1963	Millie’s brother considered business a vulgar occupation. His name was Roderick and he called his grandpa “Papa” and he stuttered and stammered badly. Once before Grandpa died he had a man-to-man talk with Roddy. “Rod, doggone, boy, you the last button on Jacob’s coattail. You got to carry the family’s name onward and upward, you know what I mean?” Roddy said, “All right, Pa-Pa-Pa-Pa-Pah-pa.” “Doggonit, boy, you been kicked outa some of the best schools in the country, colored and white. What you gonna do with yourself?” “I don’t know, Pa-Pa-Pa-Pa-Pahh—pa.” Grandpa said, “Well, I can see you ain’t gon be no doctor or lawyer or chicken-eating preacher, and I’m glad you ain’t gon be no schoolteacher. I’ll tell you what I’ll do. Maybe a change of environment would do you some good. I’ll set you up in some little business anywhere you want to go —Cleveland, Ohio, or Dee-troit, Michigan, or Chicago, or something like that. Anything you want to do anywhere you want to go.”
mailer_executioners_song_The_Executioner_s_Song	1980	2 Sept. 27 I can’t sleep in the daytime. Sometimes I try but I always wake up in a cold sweat and I hear the cars on the hiway and see the light coming brightly thru the bars and know how far away I am from it all. I know that dying is just changinform. I don’t expect to escape any of my debts, I’ll meet them and I’ll pay them. I want to quit racking up such heavy debts though! I fucked you all night in my mind Nicole. I sent love over all the distance to Springville, which is not at all a ball o’chalk, I could run that meagre distance without stopping! I loved you so hard and wet and long last nite Angel and I held you to me tite tite tite and you felt good. I kissed your forehead your nose your eyes, your cheeks and long and wet on your lips your neck I fucked your ears with my tongue and heard you cry out oh oh oh ooooh baby I kissed all down your body, put your tits in my mouth all I could get in there and I put my face between them sucked your big nipples fucked your belly button pushed my tongue in your mouth in your cunt in your ass your pretty fuckin ass. God I love your pretty pretty ass.
jones_corregidora_Corregidora	1975	That hot climate. Nose like a baby hawk. Naw, she couldn’t do a damn thing. Naw, she didn’t give him nothing but a little sick rabbit that didn’t live but to be a day old. So then he just stopped doing it. Naw, she couldn’t do a damn thing.” “No, because it depends on if it’s for you or somebody else. Your life or theirs.” I wouldn’t take my eyes off her. She kept looking down at me. “What you doing?” Cat had come in but I hadn’t heard her. “Tadpole said you might be sleeping, but I said I’d just peep in and see and if you was, I wouldn’t bother you. He’s got right evil these days.” “Yeah. Naw, I wasn’t sleeping.” “Just thinking?” “Yeah.” “I seen you staring wide-eyed at the ceiling, and didn’t know if I should disturb that either.” “Naw, come on in.” She came in. “It’s nothing,” I said. She came and sat down on the bed. “You okay? How did it go with the doctor?” “He took me off the pills.
janney_the_miracle_of_the_bells_The_Miracle_of_the_Bells	1947	He was careful not to say too much in praise of Olga Treskovna. He put emphasis on the story, “The Garden of the Soul.” He knew the danger of an extravagant advance ballyhoo for a new star. Let the critics find it out for themselves. Let the public acclaim her. That would make her a real star. Meantime, by making the name of her vehicle—the story—a household word, he would have the public in a receptive mood to grasp a new film personality. He began toiling at his Studio office from early morning till late at night. He did try each day to go at least once to whatever stage Olga Treskovna was working on. And he would have a few words with her. He felt that she understood. It was imperative that both she and the picture get off to a right start. Hard work always agreed with Dunnigan. He became ruddier, healthier. And it was not until the end of the fourth week of shooting (Marcus Harris had returned, stayed a week, and gone back to New York) that it occurred to Dunnigan that the relentless grind was not affecting Olga Treskovna in the same fine way it did him. Watching her on the set late one afternoon, he suddenly realized that she was thinner, much thinner.
atwood_the_blind_assassin_The_Blind_Assassin	2000	Sorry. She hadn’t liked Calhe,but she’d got used to her, and Calhe had been good for Father once upon a time. Who would replace her? Some other floozie, and better the devil you know. The next week there was a call for a general strike, to show solidarity with the Chase and Sons workers. All stores and businesses must close, was the edict. All public services must be shut down. The telephones, the mail delivery. No milk, no bread, no ice. (Who was issuing these edicts? No one thought they were really coming from the man who actually spoke the words of them. This man claimed to be local, right from our own town, and was once thought to be — he was a Morton, a Morgan, something like that - but surely it had become clear that he was not local, not underneath it. He couldn’t have been, to behave like that. Who was his grandfather, anyway?) So it was not this man. He was not the brains behind it, said Reenie, because he did not have any brains to begin with. Dark forces were at work. Laura was worried about Alex Thomas. He was mixed up in it somehow, she said. She knew he was.
struther_mrs_miniver_Mrs._Miniver	1940	And how could it succeed, if the meetings were always to be held in that moss-carpeted mausoleum of a house, at that smug post-prandial hour? If I had my way, she thought, walking very quickly so as to create a wind past her temples. I’d arrange the scene of every conference to suit its subject: and this particular committee ought to meet in a damp basement bedroom in Shoreditch, sitting on upturned soapboxes. Rats, blackbeetles, and all. She decided to go to the Zoo. It would be a relief to her feelings. As she passed the still open trenches she caught sight of old Badgecumbe standing among a little knot of sightseers, his vast head bent, his eyes hidden as usual beneath jutting, grizzled brows. "Badger! You, rubber-necking?” "I've been working with pyridine all day, and I need a breath of air.” "So do I. Not pyridine—people. I was just going to do a Whitman. Why not come too?” Badger nodded towards the trenches. “Woolley and the rest of 'em dig to uncover past civilizations. We dig to bury our own.” "I hear they're going to roof them in and put flower-beds on top.” "Very suitable
stead_the_man_who_loved_children_The_Man_Who_Loved_Children	1940	Sometimes they went on from there, under the Jefferson Rock, whence they would climb perilously up and back to their starting point. Dan said little, but he liked what she liked; he was merry-hearted and would bubble out confidences, in his double-stopped voice. Aunt Beulah laughed, and Uncle Charlie called them Black and White, “Well, I see Black and White have been for another walk to look for the Cutpaper Tree.” He would pretend that no one could find the cut-paper tree, and then would tell them one of his tales. One day, when they were building one of the houses on the hill, an old wooden house with carved wooden posts (it happened to be Christmas Eve), a man drove up in a carriage with two horses and said that if they would take the carriage and horses and take him in with them, he would help them build the house. He had no money and no home. They took him in. He carved for them the four posts of the veranda, and lived with the family a year, and on the Christmas morning of the following year, he took his hat, said good-by and went his way, saying that each had fulfilled his contract.
bellow_humboldts_gift_Humboldt_s_Gift	1976	Cantabile was manifesting these tendencies in Chicago, wildly exalting some human principle—he knew not what. In my own fashion I myself knew not what. Why was it that I enjoyed no relations with anyone of my own mental level? I was attracted instead by these noisy bumptious types. They did something for me. Maybe this was in part a phenomenon of modem capitalist society with its commitment to personal freedom for all, ready to sympathize with and even to subsidize the mortal enemies of the leading class, as Schumpeter says, actively sympathetic with real or faked suffering, ready to accept peculiar character-distortions and burdens. It was true that people felt it gave them moral distinction to be patient with criminals and psychopaths. To understand! We love to understand, to have compassion! And there I was. As for the broad masses, millions of people born poor now had houses and power tools and other appliances and conveniences and they endured the social turbulence, lying low, hanging on to their worldly goods. Their hearts were angry but they put up with the disorders and formed no mobs in the streets. They took alLthe abuse, doggedly waiting it out. No rocking the boat. Apparently I shared in their condition. But I couldn’t see what good it would do me to fire a gun.
cornwell_trace_Trace	2004	“I’m so very sorry about Gilly.” Mrs. Paulsson’s eyes brighten with tears. “Come in, won’t you? I’ve not been much of a housekeeper of late. I just made some coffee.” “Sounds good,” Marino says, and he introduces himself. “Detective Browning’s talked to me. But I thought we’d start from square one, if that’s all right.” “How do you take your coffee?” Marino has the good sense not to offer his usual line: like my women, sweet and white. “Black is fine,” Scarpetta says, and they follow Mrs. Paulsson along a hallway of old pine planking, and off to their right is a comfortable small living room with dark green leather furniture and brass fireplace tools. To the left is a stiff formal parlor that doesn’t look used, and the chill of it reaches out to Scarpetta as she walks past. “May I take your coats?” Mrs. Paulsson asks. “There I go asking about coffee when you’re at the front door and asking about your coats when we get to the kitchen. Don’t mind me. I’m not right these days.” They slip out of their coats and she hangs them on wooden pegs in the kitchen.
alexander_nampally_road_Nampally_Road	1991	For his voice so refined that we can listen intently and then say, no our lives are not like that. We live with turmoil and disturbance, with the abuse of law. But as a young man he knew a little about that too. Let me tell you.” I never finished the remark. Ramu ran in through the door. His face shone with sweat. He was shaking with fatigue, with some intense emotion he was struggling to contain. “Mira, you have to come with me. Dismiss your class now and come.” I did not stop to question him. Something in me was prepared already. I turned back to the students who had half risen. “There is an emergency. I am terribly sorry. Wordsworth will have to wait. Please read ‘Tintem Abbey’ over again.” Then I ran along the balcony with Ramu. The leaves of the neem trees that grew in the garden were level with our faces. I saw the small hairs on his forearms. His skin was golden in that gentle light screened through the guava branches that grew in Sarojini Naidu’s garden. The heat did not matter anymore. As we hurried down the staircase toward the street I could hear the loudspeaker in the temple cranking up. Soon the devotionals would flood the street.
clarke_jonathan_strange_and_mr_norrell_Jonathan_Strange___Mr_Norrell	2004	No. I cannot count the number of times the wind has changed since I have sat here, but what have the men on those ships done? Nothing.” Captain Jumeau, who disliked Perroquet and was jealous of his influence with the Admiral, laughed. “He is mad, my Admiral. If the British were really as idle or ignorant as he says, their ships would all be heaps of broken spars by now.” “They are more like pictures of ships,” mused Perroquet, paying the Captain no attention, “than the ships themselves. But a queerer thing still, my Admiral, is that ship, the three-decker at the northernmost tip of the line. On Monday it was just like the others but now its sails are all in tatters, its mizzen mast is gone and there is a ragged hole in its side.” “Huzza!” cried Captain Jumeau. “Some brave French crew has inflicted this damage while we stand here talking.” Perroquet grinned. “And do you think, Captain, that the British would permit one French ship to go up to their hundred ships and blow one of them to bits and then sail calmly away again? Ha! I should like to see you do it, Captain, in your little boat.
armah_the_beautyful_ones_are_not_yet_born_The_Beautyful_Ones_Are_Not_Yet_Born	1968	‘People who can do manly things, and take the burdens of others too.’ Now the man laughed softly and said. ’Yes, we shall be rolling in fish.’ The old woman spat violently against the earth. ‘And you will have a boat in twelve years, perhaps.’ The man’s wife pulled his arm, and he said nothing more. ’Foolishness,’ muttered the old woman. ‘Sheer foolishness.’ The man turned back. His good-night went ringing through the night, unanswered, and he thought he heard something said about useless men. CHAPTER ELEVEN He would have stopped the first taxi that came along, but his wife pointed out that it was foolish to pay so much money and not have the pleasure of sitting in a decent car. So he waited there by the roadside with her tiD one appeared of which the woman approved. 'This one,' she said. The man flagged down the passing vehicle. It was a new kind of car altogether, and when they were inside and it bad started moving off. he asked the driver about it. They call it a Toyota,' said the driver. 'Japanese.' ‘They have done well, the Japanese.' the man said. 'You have said it.
marshall_brown_girl_brownstones_Brown_Girl,_Brownstones	1959	“No. It’s nothing.” “Something with your father. He got hurt on the job . . .” “It’s nothing, I said. I just came to meet you.” “Just came to meet me!” She shouted and caught herself. Her voice dropped to a menacing whisper. “You mean to say that you came through these dark streets alone, as much murder and rape as goes on in this place?” “I came when it was still light,” she lied. “It was just that I finished my homework and had nothing to do so I decided to come and meet you . . “Oh God, you want licks. How you find this place?” “I asked Miss Thompson.” “But look at that busy-lickum! Instead of she looking after that life-sore ’pon she foot she sending a child . . .” “She didn’t send me, I came on my own.” The mother staggered back and a silence formed between them that had the quality of sound—it was more charged with sound than the factory and rose swiftly to a point of eruption. As the mother’s hand raised high, Selina pulled off her hat and murmured, “See, I’ve got curls.”
kennedy_ironweed_Ironweed	1984	I’d rather be dyin’ in the weeds than standin’ here lookin’ at you pinin’ away, like the dyin’ Jesus pinin’ for an end to it when he knew every stinkin’ thing that was gonna happen not only to himself but to everybody around him, and to all those that wasn’t even bom yet. You ain’t nothin’ more than a photograph, you goddamn spooks. You ain’t real and I ain’t gonna be at your beck and call no more. You’re all dead, and if you ain’t, you oughta be. I’m the one is livin’. I’m the one puts you on the map. You never knew no more about how things was than I did. You’d never even be here in the damn yard if I didn’t open that old trunk. So get your ass gone! “Hey Ma,” Billy yelled out the window. “Peg’s home.” “We’ll be right in,” Annie said. And when Billy closed the window she turned to Francis: “You want to tell me anything, ask me anything, before we get in front of the others?” “Annie, I got five million things to ask you, and ten million things to tell.
keyes_dinner_at_antoines_Dinner_at_Antoine_s	1948	"I haven’t heard quite as much as I wish I might have from my vantage point in the hall,” he said. “But I don’t have the same trouble you do, Mr. Foxworth, in following my poor mother-in-law’s agonized reasoning. This is what she was trying to say: ‘You didn’t want any interlopers in your tropical wonderland, so you found a way to get rid of Caresse in a few short hours. But there was still the unexpected problem of Odile. Well, you work fast, you’re not easily balked. And incidentally, you could do her a great service. You could save her from years of invalidism, just as you could give Caresse a great opportunity. So, in the next few short hours, you got rid of Odile too!’ ” CHAPTER XIV How Orson Foxworth had a narrow escape— January 8, 1948 Not a few of the most significant experiences in Foxworth’s tumultuous career had lacked all similitude to reality. But no hairbreadth escape, no amazing discovery, no precipitate victory had ever seemed to him so wholly unbelievable as the fact that, having desired Amelie Lalande for years and being at last on the very threshold of the nuptial chamber, he had by his own act rent the bonds which united them.
grau_the_keepers_of_the_house_The_Keepers_of_the_House	1965	"I don’t suppose those rooms’ll be opened now, until Abigail’s children come to getting married.” "I reckon so,” he said shortly. She leered at him impishly, and said: "Willie, you are jealous.” "Annie,” he said, "you are a silly old woman.” She sat grinning at him, not hearing, until he thought he would like to smash something down on her head. Just as he was about to, she got up and poured him a whiskey, and brought it to him, taking one for herself. Sitting in the old chairs, in the old house, scrubbed unnaturally dean now, and empty of the people who had sheltered in it, they drank to each other. "Luck!” William Howland toasted his sister. "The future, Willie!” And again there was that faint ghost of a wink. "Annie,” he said, "go home.” "In the morning, Willie.” She did. And he was left alone, except for Ramona rattling pots in the kitchen or muttering her way through the rooms, flipping a feather duster at the edges of the furniture. The house was no more empty than it had been with Abigail at college. But it felt emptier.
nabokov_pale_fire_Pale_Fire	1962	Once, three decades ago, in my tender and terrible boyhood, I had the occasion of seeing a man in the act of making contact with God. I had wandered into the so-called Rose Court at the back of the Ducal Chapel in my native Onhava, during an interval in hymnal practice. As I mooned there, lifting and cooling my bare calves by turns against a smooth column, I could hear the distant sweet voices interblending in subdued boyish merriment which some chance grudge, some jealous annoyance with one particular lad, prevented me from joining. The sound of rapid steps made me raise my morose gaze from the sectile mosaic of the court—realistic rose petals cut out of rodstein and large, almost palpable thorns cut out of green marble. Into these roses and thorns there walked a black shadow: a tall, pale, long-nosed, darkhaired young minister whom I had seen around once or twice strode out of the vestry and without seeing me stopped in the middle of the court. Guilty disgust contorted his thin lips. He wore spectacles. His clenched hands seemed to be gripping invisible prison bars. But there is no bound to the measure of grace which man may be able to receive. All at once his look changed to one of rapture and reverence.
delany_return_to_neveryon_Return_to_Neveryon	1989	Be kind to children and small animals. When you get some woman pregnant — and, drunk or not, you will — don't run off to another town the week you hear the news. Be as kind and considerate to her as you've been to me. And when the dragon beats her wings and honks, hold her, hold her in the dark,and tell her, "No, no, there's nothing to be afraid of! It'll be all right!"' Clodon said: 'There really isn't much to be afraid of with dragons. Up close, they're all noise and bad smell. And there're not that many left.' 'Now you see?' she said, 'that's something, somewhere in your travels, you've actually learned. It's very valuable knowledge, too.' Clodon drew himself up. 'Still,' he said, 'you're asking a lot of a man like me.' 'I wasn't asking anything,' she said. 'I was answering. But an answer doesn't mean much if you can't hear your own question.' Clodon said: "You know, right up ahead is where I work. Just around that bend is where Teren's building his new house.
ryhs_wide_sargasso_sea_Wide_Sargasso_Sea	1966	Expatriate from where?”7 Her question repeats the European attitude toward the Caribbean as a “background of nothing” or, at best, an “antique romance,” but it also alludes to a background of plural, unconsolidated cultures and a divided national identity of rich potential that the European eye could only perceive as disorganized or simply “nothing.”8 Her question states implicitly the discovery of West Indian writers that identity depends upon place even as it questions the identity of that place. Living as an outcast even among expatriates, Rhys writes novels that reinscribe the colonial divisions of a Caribbean heritage displaced once more. It is not surprising then that a passage from the novel considered her most European, Good Morning, Midnight, is quoted in the introduc- 6. Helen Tiffin, “Mirror and Mask: Colonial Motifs in the Novels of Jean Rhys,” World Literature Written in English 17 (April 1978): 328. 7. Jean Rhys, “How I Became a Novelist,” unpub. ms., Jean Rhys Collection, quoted in Veronica Marie Gregg, “Jean Rhys and Modernism: A Different Voice,” Jean Rhys Review 1, no. 2 (Spring 1982): 32. 8. V. S. Naipaul uses these phrases to describe what must have been the European attitude toward the Caribbean in the 1920s.
kureishi_the_buddha_of_suburbia_The_Buddha_of_Suburbia	1990	I walked to the bus stop in silence with him beside me. It was cold, dark and raining. 'Has Pyke offered you a part?' he said at last. 'Yes.' 'Liar!' I said nothing. 'Liar!' he said. I knew he was so incensed he couldn't control himself; I couldn't blame him for the fury which inhabited him. 'It can't be true, it can't be true,' he said. Suddenly I shouted out into the night air. 'Yes, yes, yes, it is true!' And now the world had some tension in. it; now it twanged and vibrated with meaning and possibility! 'Yes, yes, fucking yes!' When I got to the theatre next day someone had laid a dirty red carpet from the dressing-room door to the spot where I normally changed. 'Can I help you off with your clothes?' one actor said. 'Can I have your autograph?' said another. I received daffodils, roses and an acting primer. The EST freak, Boyd, said, as he took off his trousers and shook his penis at me, 'If I weren't white and middle class I'd have been in Pyke's show now.
sidhwa_cracking_india_Cracking_India	1988	“God knows,” says Hamida. “Go to sleep... there is nothing we can do... She’ll be all right in the morning.” My heart is wrung with pity and horror. I want to leap out of my bed and soothe the wailing woman and slay her tormentors. I’ve seen Ayah carried away—and it had less to do with fate than with the will of men. “Did you cry?” I ask Hamida. “Who doesn’t? We’re all fate-smitten...” “I mean, when you were there?” Her hand on my leg goes still. "I saw you before you came to us, you know. I saw you in the jail next door.” I speak as gently as I know how. “What nonsense you talk...” “I looked down at you from a hole in the roof. You couldn’t see me—but I saw you. I recognized you straightaway when you were talking to Mother about the job... But I didn’t tell her!” After a pause, breathing heavily in the dark, Hamida says, “Your mother knows I was there.” The woman in the jail has stopped wailing. It is so quiet—as it must be at the beginning of time.
sarton_joanna_and_ulysses_Joanna_and_Ulysses	1964	She was in a sea daze, and the quay seemed to rock slightly as she stood there, bewildered for a moment among the shouts and cries of the donkey drivers already competing for the five or six passengers who had disembarked. She stood there, bewildered, beside her pile of luggage, smiling at the sight of so many donkeys, donkeys of eveiy size, color, each with a different saddle or bright blanket thrown over him, attended by their masters who looked, Joanna thought, like delightful bandits in a child’s story. What made her suddenly notice, far down the quay, another scene, so terrible that at first she turned her eyes away? “I have not come here, all this way, to be wrenched apart again, to be wrenched apart by a donkey,” she 14] thought and the thought was a prayer, “Please let me not see what I see.” But she did see. What she saw was an infinitesimal gray donkey, the most miserable animal one could imagine, for his whole belly was an open wound; and on the back of this misery two gypsies were loading an enormous wine cask. At that second, her daze vanished and she strode past the clamor of reputable donkey-drivers without a glance, her eyes blazing.
sparks_the_notebook_The_Notebook	1996	Mostly, though, I smile and I tell them that she is the same, and they turn from me, for I know they do not want me to see their faces. It reminds them of their own mortality. So I sit with them and read to lessen their fears. Be composed—be at ease with me ... Not till the sun excludes you do I exclude you, Not till the waters refuse to glisten for you and the leaves to rustle for you, do my words refuse to glisten and rustle for you. And I read, to let them know who I am. I wander all night in my vision,... Bending with open eyes over the shut eyes of sleepers. Wandering and confused, lost to myself, ill-assorted, contradictory. Pausing, gazing, bending, and stopping. If she could, my wife would accompany me on my evening excursions, for one of her many loves was poetry. Thomas, Whitman, Eliot, Shakespeare, and King David of the Psalms. Lovers of words, makers of language. Looking back, I am surprised by my passion for it, and sometimes I even regret it now. Poetry brings great beauty to life, but also great sadness, and I’m not sure it’s a fair exchange for someone my age.
stephenson_snow_crash_Snow_Crash	1992	“Nope. Look. The Raft is a media event. But in a much more profound, general sense than you can possibly imagine.” “Oh.” “It’s created by the media in that without the media, people wouldn’t know it was here, Refus wouldn’t come out and glom onto it the way they do. And it sustains the media. It creates a lot of information flow—movies, news reports—you know.” “So you’re creating your own news event to make money off the information flow that it creates?” says the journalist, desperately trying to follow. His tone of voice says that this is all a waste of videotape. His weary attitude suggests that this is not the first time Rife has flown off on a bizarre tangent. “Partly. But that’s only a veiy crude explanation. It really goes a lot deeper than that. You’ve probably heard the expression that the Industry feeds off of biomass, like a whale straining krill from the ocean.” “I’ve heard the expression, yes.” “That’s my expression. I made it up. An expression like that is just like a virus, you know—it’s a piece of information—data— that spreads from one person to the next.
jones_evas_man_Eva’s_Man	1976	Miss Billie said. “Just like a little banny rooster.” “He is bad,” Mama said. “I caint even stand for him to look at me,” Miss Billie said when we got in the house. “Who, Freddy?” “Naw, that shit out there. That ole shit out there.” “You let me do it once." “She don’t know how to act,” Miss Billie said. She was talking about her daughter, who was fifteen. “All she do is think about that boy. That’s why she got her hand caught in the door, cause she too busy thinking about that boy. Come crying to me. I told her she didn’t have no business with that boy.” “How’s her hand?” “It’s coming along all right. It hurt her like the devil, though. I told her to go and let the doctor cut it a little so he can release some of the blood. But she said Naw. That’s why it hurt so bad, all that pressure on it. I told her to go and let him cut it a little right by the nail, and it would stop hurting. But naw, all she got her mind on is that boy.
lamming_in_the_castle_of_my_skin_In_the_Castle_of_My_Skin	1953	He might have changed. But Trumper spoke with an almost criminal contempt of Mr. Slime, and my mother was puzzled. She had known Mr. Slime, too, and she didn’t see the matter in this light. She became suspicious. Trumper had done something to give us a new slant on the sale of the land. We were worried about what would happen to our spot, and we had even discussed the possibilities of buying it. My feeling had changed, and my mother was less certain. Mr. Slime had become suspect. Trumper had no doubt. He felt contempt for the very name. His face registered the disgust it evoked. ‘I don’t know much ’bout Trinidad,’ he said, regaining his composure. ‘But you might got to go further one day an’ there be quite a few things you got to learn. The things you got to learn in this life you never see and will never see in the books you read at that High School. ’Tis p’raps what the ol’ people call experience, but take it from me, barring learning to count an’ write your name there ain’t much in these schools that will help you not to make a blasted mess o’ your life when you get out in the world. You can count on that from me.’
leonard_get_shorty_Get_Shorty	1990	A couple days go by, people from the airline come to see the wife, tell her how sorry they are and all and offer her a settlement, the amount based on what he would’ve earned operating the drycleaner’s the rest of his life. Leo had some kind of trouble with his kidneys, so they were giving him about ten years.” “Yeah, but wait,” Harry said. "The best part, the guy hadn’t even thought about a settlement, he’s so happy to get out from under the shylock. All of a sudden he realizes he can sue the airline, go for at least a million. It’s the loser’s grandiose dream, see, but now he’s pressing his luck . . .” Karen said, "How much is the wife offered? . . .” Chili started to tell her as Harry said, "Three hundred grand, and they take it, money in the hand, babe. The guy has his wife cash the check and he takes off for Las Vegas with the dough. Gets there, he’s supposed to call her, tell her when to come out . . . Wait, he does call her a couple of times.” "Twice,” Chili said. "Basically stringing her along.”
wideman_philadelphia_fire_Philadelphia_Fire	1990	He’d remembered a green oasis. Forgotten those seasons, months when the park was the color of the neighborhood surrounding it. No color. Grays and browns of dead leaves. July now. Trees should be full, the grass green. He’d been hoping for green. Hoping the park sat green and waiting between Woodland and Baltimore avenues, that it had not been an invention, one more lie he’d told himself about this land to which he was returning. A statue of Charles Dickens. Only one in the world at last count. Little Nell at his knee stares imploringly up at the great man’s distant face. They are separated and locked together by her gaze. Both figures larger than life, greener than the britde grass. Both blind. In a notebook somewhere Cudjoe had recorded the inscription carved into the pedestal. For his story about people who frequent the park. A black boy who climbs on Dickens’s knee and daydreams. A crazy red-haired guy muttering and singing nonsense songs to himself. A blind man who shoots baskets at night. A boy-girl vignette about a baby the girl’s carrying, how the couple strolls round and round the path, kids on a carousel, teaching themselves the news of another, unexpected life. Twenty blocks west the fire had burned.
santmyer_and_ladies_of_the_club__...And_Ladies_of_the_Club_	1984	He was in uniform; he had managed to join a French ambulance unit as a stretcher-bearer, so he won’t be in Paris long, to look after her. Mamma cabled him to come home. Imagine Ludwig turning his back on a war! But he’s being very protective of Jennifer so far, taking her to see the American Ambassador to try to get money for her trip home. Her American letter of credit is no good right now, not on the Continent, anyway. Mr. Herrick was a great friend of Papa’s when he was an Ohio politician, and Papa helped him get elected governor. He hadn’t forgotten. He cashed her letter of credit for her, gave her French and English money, and somehow managed to reserve a place for her on a channel ferry. They seem to be running still. She wasn’t at all anxious to go but she had been ordered to leave the next day for London. I suppose she got there. She hasn’t cabled, but Mr. Herrick got word to Mamma: he and Ludwig had seen her off for Cherbourg, Calais being a bit close to the war zone, and the port of entry for the English army. It was closed to ordinary transport. Mr. Herrick gave her a note for Ambassador Page in London.
towles_a_gentleman_in_moscow_A_Gentleman_in_Moscow	2017	"I see.... And has this Rostov been questioned?” “That is just it, sir. Rostov cannot be found either. An initial search of the hotel’s premises proved fruitless, and no one who has been questioned has admitted to seeing him since last night. However, a second and more thorough search this afternoon resulted in the discovery of the hotel’s manager, locked in a storeroom in the basement.” “Not comrade Leplevsky ...” "The very same, sir. It appears that he discovered the plan of the girl’s defection and was on his way to inform the KGB when Rostov overcame him and forced him into the storeroom at gunpoint.” “At gunpoint!” "Yes, sir.” “Where did Rostov get a firearm?” “It appears that he had a pair of antique dueling pistols—and the will to use them. In fact, it has been confirmed that he shot a portrait of Stalin in the manager’s office.” “Shot a portrait of Stalin. Well. He does sound like a rather ruthless fellow... .” “Yes, sir. And, if I may say so, wily. For it appears that two nights ago a Finnish passport and Finnish currency were stolen from one of the hotel’s Finnish guests.
delany_neveryona_Neveryona,_or,_the_Tale_of_Signs_and_Cities	1982	She was a greedy creature.' 'I was looking forward to a last mouthful before I went in, yes.' He glanced back, smiling (so Pryn stepped up beside him). 'But slaves grow thirsty too.' 'Would you like some of mine?' A bushy eyebrow rose. He looked at Pryn, at his own mug, at hers again, at his own. 'Eh . . . no. Thank you, no.' He stepped ahead at the door, and pushed back wet hide. Pryn stepped in behind him. She watched him walk through the hall, water dripping and gleaming from the dark embroideries. Making her own way to the counter, she climbed to the stool. The gentleman had stopped to speak to three barbarian workers — and in their own language, too, just as clearly as he had been speaking with Pryn in hers. Ymik knew a few barbarian phrases that he could shout to get the workers to move faster. And Tetya had told her some words you were not supposed to say — which barbarians said all the time. But now, with both that man's hands on his blue-black shoulders, now with his own hand on the shoulder of that one, the gentleman seemed a kind of magnificent little barbarian himself.
grisham_the_partner_The_Partner	1997	He was unabashedly ambitious, and through the ranks of upper managers it was well known that he wanted the top job. To him, life in Biloxi was a cruel joke, a pit stop from the fast lane orchestrated by his enemies within the company. He detested contracting with the government, detested the red tape and bureaucrats and arrogance from the Pentagon. He hated the snail’s pace with which the submarines were built. In 1988, he asked to be transferred, and was denied. A year later, the rumors of serious cost overruns on the Expedition project surfaced. Construction came to a halt as government auditors and Pentagon brass descended on New Coastal Shipyards. Benny was on the hot seat, and the end was near. As a defense contractor, Platt & Rockland had a rich history of cost overruns, overbilling, and false claims. It was a way of doing business, and when discovered, the company typically fired everybody near the controversy and negotiated with the Pentagon for a small repayment. Benny went to a local attorney, Charles Bogan, the senior partner in a small firm which included a young partner named Patrick Lanigan. Bogan’s cousin was a U.S. Senator from Mississippi. The Senator was a rabid hawk who chaired the subcommittee on military appropriations, and was dearly loved by the armed services.
waller_the_bridges_of_madison_county_The_Bridges_of_Madison_County	1993	The dog was part of it. Robert Kincaid was as alone as it's possible to be—an only child, parents both dead, distant relatives who had lost track of him and he of them, no close friends. Robert James Waller He knew the names of the man who owned the corner market in Bellingham and the proprietor of the photographic store where he bought his supplies. He also had formal, professional relationships with several magazine editors. Other than that, he knew scarcely anyone well, nor they him. Gypsies make difficult friends for ordinary people, and he was something of a gypsy. He thought about Marian. She had left him nine years ago after five years of marriage. He was fifty-two now,- that would make her just under forty. Marian had dreams of becoming a musician, a folksinger. She knew all of the Weavers' songs and sang them pretty well in the coffeehouses of Seattle. When he was home in the old days, he drove her to gigs and sat in the audience while she sang. His long absences—two or three months sometimes—were hard on the marriage. He knew that. She was aware of what he did when they decided to get married, and each of them had a vague sense that it could all be handled somehow.
steinbeck_the_grapes_of_wrath_The_Grapes_of_Wrath	1940	Al looked at his brother Tom. “Care to ride in?” he said as casually as he could. “No, I can’t,” said Tom. “I’ll help aroun’ here. We’ll be—together on the road.” Al tried to control his question. “Did—did you bust out? Of jail?” “No,” said Tom. “I got paroled.” “Oh.” And Al was a little disappointed. IN THE LITTLE HOUSES the tenant people sifted their belongings and the belongings of their fathers and of their grandfathers. Picked over their possessions for the journey to the west. The men were ruthless because the past had been spoiled, but the women knew how the past would cry to them in the coming days. The men went into the barns and the sheds. That plow, that harrow, remember in the war we planted mustard? Remember a fella wanted us to put in that rubber bush they call guayule?1 Get rich, he said. Bring out those tools—get a few dollars for them. Eighteen dollars for that plow, plus freight—Sears Roebuck. Harness, carts, seeders, little bundles of hoes. Bring ’em out. Pile ’em up. Load ’em in the wagon. Take ’em to town.
danticat_breathe_eyes_memory_Breath,_Eyes,_Memory	1994	I ate every scrap of the dinner leftovers, then went to the bathroom, locked the door, and purged all the food out of my body. There were three of us in my sexual phobia group. We gave it that name because that’s what Rena—the therapist who introduced us—liked to call it. Buki, an Ethiopian college student, had her clitoris cut and her labia sewn up when she was a girl. Davina, a middle-aged Chicana, had been raped by her grandfather for ten years. We met at Davina’s house. She was the only one of us with a place to herself. Buki lived in a college dorm and, of course, I lived with Joseph. Davina had a whole room in her house set aside for our meetings. When we came in, we changed into long white dresses that Buki had sewn for us. We wrapped our hair in white scarves that I had bought. As we changed in the front room, 1 showed them the statue of Erzulie that my grandmother had given me. Davina told me to take it into the room myself, as I pondered what it meant in terms of my family. The air in our room smelled like candles and incense. We sat on green heart-shaped pillows that Davina had made.
lahaye_desecration_Desecration	2001	Dr. Rosenzweig retreated to a chair near where he had laid out his Bible and two commentaries, which he had hidden in his luggage for the flight from the United North American States. A half glass of water sat next to him on a lamp table. His roomy, hooded, monklike robe lay on the bed. “Why not dress, brother?” The old man sighed. “I am not ready for the uniform yet, Cameron. I am not ready for the task,” Chaim said, his speech altered not only by the appliance but also from damage to his jaw. Buck checked the closet and found a hotel robe. “Put this on for now,” he said. “We’ve got a couple of hours.” Dr. Rosenzweig seemed grateful to be helped into the terry-cloth garment, but it was white and a one-size-fits-all. The contrast between it and his new skin color, and the hem bunching up on the floor when he sat again, made him look no less comical. Chaim lowered his head, then looked at the hotel name on the breast pocket. “King David,” he said. “Do you not think we should have ‘Patriarch Moses’ sewn onto the brown one?” Buck smiled.
brown_inferno_Inferno	2013	The difference is that now, with Zobrist’s breakthroughs in germ-line genetic engineering, we’re learning how to create inheritable immunizations, those that would affect the recipient at the core germ-line level—making all subsequent generations immune to that disease.” Langdon looked startled. “So the human species would essentially undergo an evolution that makes it immune to typhoid, for example?” "It’s more of an assisted evolution,” Sinskey corrected. “Normally, the evolutionary process—whether it be a lungfish developing feet or an ape developing opposable thumbs—takes millennia to occur. Now we can make radical genetic adaptations in a single generation. Proponents of the technology consider it the ultimate expression of Darwinian 'survival of the fittest’—humans becoming a species that learns to improve its own evolutionary process.” “Sounds more like playing God,” Langdon replied. “I agree wholeheartedly,” Sinskey said. “Zobrist, however, like many other Transhumanists, argued strongly that it is mankind’s evolutionary obligation to use all the powers at our disposal—germ-line genetic mutation, for one—to improve as a species. The problem is that our genetic makeup is like a house of cards—each piece connected to and supported by countless others—often in ways we don’t understand.
lalami_the_moors_account_The_Moor_s_Account	2015	The first thing I noticed when we arrived in Culiacan was that Melchor Diaz’s mustache had become even more elaborate. It reached all the way to his earlobes, its ends maintained in place by means of some mysterious grease. He was standing in the middle of the dusty road, flanked by two of his men, their muskets pointing in opposite directions. To the left, the horse run was empty. To the right, the Indian settlement looked deserted. It was as if all the Indians that had been in Culiacan— both its natives and the captives my companions and I had brought with us—had disappeared. But the garrison looked immutable; it was squat, well guarded, and teeming with Diaz’s men. Before he had even dismounted, Coronado asked Diaz why he had not yet captured the rebel Ayapin. Because someone else will replace him, Diaz said. Someone who might be even worse than him, which I know sounds hardly possible. But believe me, Don Francisco, this rebellion will continue as long as the conditions of the Indians remain the same. Nuno de Guzman told me . . . The era of Guzman is over. Yes, Diaz said. I was not his most fervent supporter, I assure you. Peaceful conquest is the new way. Yes, yes.
clancy_clear_and_present_danger_Clear_and_Present_Danger	1989	The windows would stop a 7.62 NATO machine-gun bullet, and the Kevlar sheets in the doors and around the engines could, under favorable circumstances, stop larger rounds than that. He was still nervous, but through force of will did not allow himself to react visibly to the danger. “Who might it be ... ?” Escobedo asked as the car came around a sweeping turn. There were five teams of two men each, gunners and loaders. They were armed with West German MG3 squad machine guns, which the Colombian Army had just adopted because it used the same 7.62mm round as their standard infantry weapon, the G3, also of German manufacture. These five had recently been “stolen”—actually purchased from a greedy supply sergeant— out of an army depot. Based on the earlier German MG-42 of World War II fame, the MG3 retained the older weapon’s 1,200-round-per-minute cyclic rate of fire—twenty rounds per second. The gun positions were spaced thirty meters apart, with two guns tasked to engage the chase car, two on the lead car, but only one on the Mercedes. Cortez didn’t trust the car’s armor quite that much. He looked at the digital clock. They were exactly on time. Escobedo had a fine set of drivers.
lovelace_the_wine_of_astonishment_The_Wine_of_Astonishment	1982	Bolo wait and wait in a line that was getting longer, and in front of him is this grey old man, short like a tree stump, in a oversize jacket, with his legs spread apart a little, as if they plant him there, as if somebody tell him, ‘Stand up there and wait your turn,’ and so he waiting there, this little man with the face of a mouse and a little foolish begging smile and his quick darting mouse eyes questioning and wondering, stopping anybody passing to ask, to make sure: ‘This is the line where they tell you about your land? This is the agriculture office?’ taking out from his pocket a paper again and again to show anybody who look like he could help him. ‘This is the paper they send to me.’ So one clerk go to the counter and attend to a few people, and at last this old man get to the head of the line and as he shove his hand in the pocket of his beat-up jacket, as his fingers bring out the paper, trembling, the clerk start to close the book; and the old man stand up there holding out the paper, and the clerk closing the book, and Bolo asking: ‘What happen? What you doing?’
desai_the_inheritance_of_loss_The_Inheritance_of_Loss	2006	When he arrived at JFK as Rasheed Zulfickar, he saw the very same officer who had deported him waiting at the desk. His heart had beat like a fan in his ears, but the man had not remembered him: “Thank God, to them we all of us look the same!” Saeed, he relished the whole game, the way the country flexed his wits and rewarded him; he charmed it, cajoled it, cheated it, felt great tenderness and loyalty toward it. When it came time, he who had jigged open every back door, he who had, with photocopier, Wite-Out, and paper cutter, spectacularly sabotaged the system (one skilled person at the photocopy machine, he assured Biju, could bring America to its knees), he would pledge emotional allegiance to the flag with tears in his eyes and conviction in his voice. The country recognized something in Saeed, he in it, and it was a mutual love affair. Ups and downs, sometimes more sour than sweet, maybe, but nonetheless, beyond anything the INS could imagine, it was an old-fashioned romance. By 6 a.m. the bakery shelves were stocked with rye, oatmeal, and peasant bread, apricot and raspberry biscuits that broke open to a flood of lush amber or ruby jam.
hosseini_a_thousand_splendid_suns_A_Thousand_Splendid_Suns	2007	She felt lost then, casting about, like a shipwreck survivor, no shore in sight, only miles and miles of water. When it was too cold to go outside, Laila ambled around the house. She walked, dragging a fingernail along the wall, down the hallway, then back, down the steps, then up, her face unwashed, hair uncombed. She walked until she ran into Mariam, who shot her a cheerless glance and went back to slicing the stem off a bell pepper and trimming strips of fat from meat. A hurtful silence would fill the room, and Laila could almost see the wordless hostility radiating from Mariam like waves of heat rising from asphalt. She would retreat back to her room, sit on the bed, and watch the snow falling. Rasheed took her to his shoe shop one day. When they were out together, he walked alongside her, one hand gripping her by the elbow. For Laila, being out in the streets had become an exercise in avoiding injury. Her eyes were still adjusting to the limited, gridlike visibility of the burqa, her feet still stumbling over the hem. She walked in perpetual fear of tripping and falling, of breaking an ankle stepping into a pothole. Still, she found some comfort in the anonymity that the burqa provided.
chase_mary_peters_Mary_Peters	1934	It was made up of all the sorrows everywhere throughout the world, and there was no escaping it. “Perhaps I can explain better,” said her mother at last after another painful silence, “by telling you about the man who’s coming here for supper, the one your father’s just been talking about. He grew up in Petersport and went to school with your father and me. I—loved him when I was a girl—or at least I thought I did— more than I ever loved anyone. We were going to be married. He went to sea. Sometimes going to sea is not the best thing for young men, especially for a young man like him. He met a French woman in Brittany somewhere, not what people call a very good woman, I’m afraid, and he loved her more than he loved me. He came home and told me, and that was all there was to it. He didn’t tell me all there was to tell—I suppose he couldn’t—but afterward I found out that she had had a child, and that he was its father. He went back to her, it was the only thing he could do, and they were married, after a while. Then the next year I married your father.
nazel_every_goodbye_aint_gone_Every_Goodbye_Ain’t_Gone	1982	The coach was almost empty. A smallish woman, her leathery skin a sickly yellow under the glow of the ceiling lights that ran the length of the coach, sat directly across the aisle from him, squatting in the center of the green leather bench seat, her belongings sprawled at her sides, effectively barring unwelcome intrusion though surrounded by empty seats. She stared straight ahead, though he occasionally sensed her eyes on him. A silent trio huddled in the back of the coach, and he found that if he craned his head slightly and glared into the smudged window of the train he could see a glassy reflection of a woman and two small children. He turned in his seat and stared back at them. The woman seemed in her middle or late thirties, yet there was something in her face, like a single glowing ember in a pile of cold ashes, that suggested she might be much younger. There was something in her eyes, present even in the glassy image that mirrored her, that troubled him. He had seen it before, in the eyes of escapees from the South, who were rechristened “country” by those who did not understand. He had thought it to be fear, uncertainty, even cowardice, combined with a childlike innocence about life, founded in a lack of education and exposure.
barker_the_time_of_the_terrorists_The_Time_of_the_Terrorists	1977	It seems as if nothing can ever go right for me. Christ, I’m scared!” An involuntary shudder raced through her torso. “Scared. Scared of what? What’s going down? The only thing that Rochon told me was that your father was in town looking for you.” Heidi Lawler smiled, but her smile was tinged with pain and irony. “Yea. My old man is in town, but he’s not looking for me any longer. He’s probably dead by now. He and my brother came up from Los Angeles this morning and got right on my case. “They were screaming at me, calling me all kinds of names for leaving home and coming to live with Pierre again. Bitch. Whore. No damned good. Rotten. It was messy as hell.” Heidi’s hands trembled so as she reached for the ash tray that the grey tip from her cigarette fell onto the floor. She paused. “What did you do? Why do you say that your father may be dead?” Heidi’s eyes glazed over with tears, which failed to spill over onto her cheeks. “Dad and Roger decided that they were going to teach Pierre a lesson; get him the hell out of my life and take me home with them.”
herbert_dune_Dune	1965	And he thought: Why do I stand here torturing myself? And torturing this poor lad... though he does not know it. Oeyh! Damn those Har-konnen beasts! Why did they choose me for their abomination? How do we approach the study of Muad'Dib's father? A man of surpassing warmth and surprising coldness was the Duke Leto Atreides. Yet, many facts open the way to this Duke: his abiding love for his Bene Gesserit lady; the dreams he held for his son; the devotion with which men served him. You see him there—a man snared by Destiny, a lonely figure with his light dimmed behind the glory of his son. Still, one must ask: What is the son but an extension of the father? — FROM "MUAD'DIB, FAMILY COMMENTARIES" BY THE PRINCESS IRULAN Paul watched his father enter the training room, saw the guards take up stations outside. One of them closed the door. As always, Paul experienced a sense of presence in his father, someone totally here. The Duke was tall, olive-skinned. His thin face held harsh angles warmed only by deep gray eyes. He wore a black working uniform with red armorial hawk crest at the breast. A silvered shield belt with the patina of much use girded his narrow waist.
furst_dark_star_Dark_Star	1991	German troops were in the river, shielded by the wooden stanchions where the bridge had stood, firing machine pistols at the portals of the pillboxes. The German Pioneer closest to the Polish side was shirtless, his body pink against the gray water. He swam suddenly from behind a stanchion with a rope held in his teeth. He took long, powerful strokes, then he let go of the rope, which floated away from him when he turned on his back and moved downstream with the current. Behind him, soldiers hauled themselves along the rope as far as the stanchion he’d just left. Some of them floated away also but were replaced by others. “Hello? Captain? Hello?” Mierczek called into the phone. He cranked the handle and tried again. Szara could no longer hear the static. “I think the line has been severed,” Mierczek said. He took a pair of electrician’s pliers from a khaki bag, moved quickly to the low doorway, and disappeared. His job was, Szara knew, to follow the line until he found the break, repair it, and return. Szara saw a flash of the white shirt to his left, toward the battery, then it vanished into the dense smoke hanging amid the trees. Szara swept his binoculars to the village.
anaya_bless_me_ultima_Bless_Me,_Ultima	1972	Its eyes were glazed with hate as it hung in the air surrounded by churning water and a million diamond droplets of water. The spear whistled through the air, but the aim was low. The huge tail swished and contemptuously flipped it aside. Then the black form dropped into the foaming waters. “Missed,” Cico groaned. He retrieved his line slowly. I nodded my head. “I can’t believe what I have seen,” I heard myself say, “are all the fish that big here—” “No,” Cico smiled, “they catch two and three pounders below the beaver dam, the black bass must weigh close to twenty—” He threw his spear and line behind the clump of grass and came to sit by me. “Come on, let’s put our feet in the water. The golden carp will be returning—” “Are you sorry you missed?” I asked as we slid out feet into the cool water. “No,” Cico said, “it’s just a game.” The orange of the golden carp appeared at the edge of the pond. As he came out of the darkness of the pond the sun caught his shiny scales and the light reflected orange and yellow and red. He swam very close to our feet.
buck_dragon_seed_Dragon_Seed	1942	With much trouble he put his spectacles on his nose and they fell off because his hands trembled so and he put them on again and again they fell off, and all waited in great patience until a third time he tried and this time they stayed. Then he lifted up the paper and read these words aloud: “The ordeals of the conquered peoples will be hard. We must give them hope. We must give them the conviction that their sufferings and their resistances will not be in vain. The tunnel may be dark and long, but at the end there is light.” In this dark old room filthy with years and now with ruin, Ling Tan stood and heard these brave words. His heart was 337 hungry as fallow land is hungry, and the words fell into his heart like seeds. “Who is the man who said this?” he cried out. “I was not here yesterday—tell me today!” The old cousin did not need to speak. Others were ready to tell what they knew, and one man and another, speaking together, eager to speak, full of hope and doubt because of long delay, they told Ling Tan that now at last there were those two peoples for whom this one man spoke, the Mei people and the Ying people.
delany_triton_Triton	1976	You know your way around places like this—which makes it twice the fun. You’ve obviously taken a great deal of time with your clothes— which I thoroughly appreciate: That’s why I didn’t go with Windy and Charo. They insisted on going in their digging duds, right after work.” “Well, the joy of a place like this is that you can come as formal or as informal as you like.” “But if you’re going to indulge an anachronism, you might as well indulge it all the way. Really,” and she smiled, “if I were the type to get upset over any one’s clothes. Windy would have cured me long ago.” Now she frowned. “I suppose the reason I didn’t go with them is that I know, deep down, part of his reason for coming is to be scandalous, or at least to dare anyone to be scandalized. Which can be fun, if you’re in the mood. But I have other things to do, right now—The two of you, in your youth, shared a profession.” “Yes. I know,” Bron said, but could not, for the moment, remember how he knew. Had she alluded to it? Or had Windy?
faulkner_the_reivers_The_Reivers	1963	So we—all of us again—stood once more in the badk yard, Ned holding the lamp this time, to shine its light not on the horse but on Sam’s brass-buttoned coat and vest and the flat cap with the gold lettering across the front. In fact, I had expected trouble with Ned over Sam and the horse, but I was wrong. “Who, me?” Ned said. “What for? We couldn’t be no better off with a policeman himself leading that horse to Possum.” On the contrary, the trouble we were going to have about Sam would be with Boon. Sam looked at the horse. “That’s a good horse,” Sam said. “He looks like a damn good horse to me.” “Sure,” Boon said. “He aint got no whistle nor bell neither on him. He aint even got a headlight. I’m surprised you can see him a-tall.” “What do you mean by that?” Sam said. “I dont mean nothing,” Boon said. “Just what I said. You’re an iron-horse man. Maybe you better go on to the depot without waiting for us.” “You bas—” Miss Beba said.
stribling_the_store_The_Store	1933	A twitch of irony went through the Colonel’s mood. “I haven’t any money,” he said, “and if I had, I would remember the money I let you have once, Mr. Handback.” “I am not wanting to borrow it,” stressed Handback elaborately. “I was thinking about you last night. I was wondering how I could pay even part of my debts and keep my business going, and you popped into my head. The way you left me down at the river, so damned careful of my feelings . . . then today Bradley saying you had come into some money . . .” Handback paused, looking intently at the Colonel. “Is that why you wanted to see me,” snapped the Colonel, “because you thought of me last night, and Bradley mentioned me this morning?” “Not by a long shot. I went out among the niggers and begun inquiring about my cotton. Nobody knew anything about it till I struck Fo’ Spot. He said maybe it was washed away and maybe a towboat took it. I said, ‘What makes you think a towboat took it?’ He said, ‘Well, one thing, I he’p load it on the Zeb'lon D.’ ” The merchant began a sort of laugh.
johnson_middle_passage_Middle_Passage	1990	You could see to that, couldn’t you, sir, seein’ as you’d be captain when we got home?” “Yes, I’d see to that.” He was rubbing his forehead, breathing deep through his nose. One nostril whistled, clogged by something best left unsaid. He took out his handkerchief, pressed a finger to one side of his nose, and blew. “But what about Calhoun?” “What abaht him?” said McGaffin. “Does he get a share?” “Aye, if he does like I said. It’d prove where his loyalties lie. For once in his life he’d be doin’ somethin’ useful.” He looked sideways at me. “You ever cut a man’s throat, Calhoun?” “Oh, all the time.” “Leave him be.” Cringle blew again. “Nothing says we have to harm the captain. I’m not a bold man, but I despise him as much as all of you do. Mutiny”—he turned to the boatswain—“doesn’t bother me either. God knows, to be a Yank is to be mutinous. The goddamn country was born out of rebellion. But, to be fair, Falcon’s carried us this far safely.” He paused bleakly, folding his handkerchief.
west_the_thinking_reed_The_Thinking_Reed	1936	Marc was wise in his head and his body, but because of this exemption from criticism, this ability to evade the consequences of any action, he was without discipline, he was without appropriate reverence for reality. He might get a little drunk tonight, he might say foolish and dangerous things. There was no safety where there were riches. Isabelle rolled over on her face and threw her pillows about, wishing she were altering the structure of the world. She reminded herself that the poor probably suffered as many spiritual inconveniences as the rich, but found that no consolation. If one is tuberculous it helps one’s case not at all that certain other people are diabetic. Indeed, it added to her apprehension, by proving how grossly mistaken most human beings are regarding the cardinal facts of their existence, that she knew perfectly well how vast a proportion of the public would have asked nothing better than to be one of the very same group of rich people which were convincing her of the unwholesomeness of possessions. They would think it must be heaven on earth to be at Le Touquet for Easter, with the famous Lauristons, the Madame Renart whose photograph was always in the papers, the great lover Ferdy Monck, the beautiful Princess Couranoff, THE THINKING REED the fabulously wealthy Alexander Pillans.
dick_do_androids_dream_of_electric_sheep_Do_Androids_Dream_of_Electric_Sheep?	1968	His car phone buzzed. He picked up the receiver. The police operator said, “Mr. Deckard, a call for you from Seattle; Mr. Bryant said to put it through to you. From the Rosen Association.” “Okay,” Rick said, and waited. What do they want? he wondered. As far as he could discern, the Rosens had already proven to be bad news. And undoubtedly would continue so, whatever they intended. Rachael Rosen’s face appeared on the tiny screen. “Hello, Officer Deckard.” Her tone seemed placating; that caught his attention. “Are you busy right now or can I talk to you?” “Go ahead,” he said. “We of the association have been discussing your situation regarding the escaped Nexus-6 types, and knowing them as we do, we feel that you’ll have better luck if one of us works in conjunction with you.” “By doing what?” “Well, by one of us coming along with you. When you go out looking for them.” “Why? What would you add?” Rachael said, “The Nexus-6s would be wary at being approached by a human. But if another Nexus-6 made the contact—” “You specifically mean yourself.” “Yes.”
shaara_the_killer_angels_The_Killer_Angels	1975	The Cashtown road.” Buford tried to think of something else to do but it was all suspended again, a breezy vacancy. Rest until Reynolds sends the word. He sat down once more, back against a gravestone, and began to drift slowly away, turning his mind away as you shift a field of vision with your glasses, moving to focus on higher ground. He remembered a snowstorm. Young lieutenant delivering military mail: days alone across an enormous white plain. Lovely to remember: riding, delivering mail. He dreamed. The wound began to hurt. He woke to the Sergeant, bowlegged Corse: the man dragged drearily by on a spattered horse, raised disgusted eyes. “The husband, by God, is an undertaker." He rode mournfully off. The sound of music began to drift up the hill from Gettysburg. A preacher from the Seminary began a low, insistent, theological argument with a young lieutenant, back and forth, back and forth, the staff listening with admiration at the lovely words. The staff began to bed down for the night. It was near midnight when the buck-toothed boy came back from Reynolds, panting down from a lathered horse. Buford read: General Buford: Hold your ground. I will come in the morning as early as possible.
jackson_the_lottery_haunting_hill_house_we_have_always_lived_in_the_castle_We_Have_Always_Lived_in_the_Castle	1962	“It hardly seems like six years, sometimes,” Constance said. I took the yellow' tablecloth and went outside to the lawn to start the table; behind me I heard her saying to Uncle Julian, “Sometimes I feel I would give anything to have them all back again.” When I was a child I used to believe that someday I would grow up and be tall enough to touch the tops of the windows in our mother’s drawing room. They were summer windows, because the house was really intended to be only a summer house and our father had only put in a heating system because there was no other house for our family to move to in the winters; by rights we should have had the Rochester house in the village, but that was long lost to us. The windows in the drawing room of our house reached from the floor to the ceiling, and I could never touch the top; our mother used to tell visitors that the light blue silk drapes on the windows had been made up fourteen feet long. There were two tall windows in the drawing room and two tall windows in the dining room across the hall, and from the outside they looked narrow and thin and gave the house a gaunt high look. Inside, however, the drawing room was lovely.
mcnaught_a_kingdom_of_dreams_A_Kingdom_of_Dreams	1989	I was so very scared, Jenny, and he’s so huge, and so fierce, and I couldn’t s-stop crying, which only p-pro-provoked him more.” “Don’t cry,” Jenny soothed. “It’s all over now,” she lied. Lying, she thought sadly, was beginning to come very easily to her. Stefan threw back the flap of Royce’s tent and walked inside. “My God, she’s a beauty,” he said, referring to Brenna, who had just departed. “Too bad she’s a nun.” “She’s not,” Royce snapped irritably. “She managed, between bouts of weeping, to explain she’s a ‘novice.’ ” “What’s that?” Royce Westmoreland was a battle-hardened warrior whose firsthand knowledge of religious rights was virtually nonexistent. His entire world, since he was a boy, had been military, and so he translated Brenna’s tearful explanation into military terms he understood: “Apparently, a novice is a volunteer who hasn’t completed his training or sworn fealty to his liege lord yet.” “Do you believe she tells the truth about that?” Royce grimaced and swallowed more of his ale. “She’s too frightened to lie.
mccann_let_the_great_world_spin_Let_the_Great_World_Spin	2009	They’ve seen him, for sure. Going to drag him out, give him a ticket. Four of them, belts jiggling. He slides open the door to the car, ducks inside. Waits for the slap of a hand on his shoulder. Nothing. He leans back against the cool metal of the door. Catches sight of them sprinting out past the turnstiles. Like there’s some fire to get to. All of them clanging. Handcuffs and guns and nightsticks and notepads and flashlights and God knows what else. Someone’s bought it, he thinks. Someone’s gone and bought it. He squeezes sideways through the closing doors, holding the camera sideways so it doesn’t get scratched. Behind him, the door hisses shut. A jaunt in his step. Out the turnstile and up the stairs. To hell with the barbershop. Irwin can wait. t’s early in the morning and the fluorescents are flickering. We’re taking a break from the graphics hack. Dennis gets the blue-box program running through the PDP-io to see if we can catch a good hook. It’s Dennis, Gareth, Compton, and me. Dennis is the oldest, almost thirty. We like to call him Grandpa—he did two tours in ’Nam. Compton graduated U.C. Davis.
douglas_the_robe_The_Robe	1943	We have seen everything there is for sale— in Cana.” Suddenly Marcellus, who had been tossing camp equipment into a wicker box, straightened and looked Justus squarely in the eyes. “I think I have bought all the homespun I want,” he announced, bluntly. “What I have been learning about this Jesus has made me curious to hear more. I wonder if you will help me meet a few people who knew him— people who might be willing to talk about him.” “That would be difficult,” said Justus, frankly. “Our people have no reasons for feeling that they can talk freely with Romans. They would find it hard to understand why a man of your nation should be making inquiries about Jesus. Perhaps you are not aware that the Romans put him to death. Maybe you do not know that the legionaries—especially in Jerusalem—are on the alert for any signs that the friends of Jesus are organized.” “Do you suspect me of being a spy, Justus?” asked Marcellus, bluntly. “No—I do not think you are a spy. I do not know what you are, Marcellus; but I am confident that you have no evil intent. I shall be willing to tell you some things about Jesus.”
ludlum_materese_circle_The_Matarese_Circle	1979	Later, if the fragile scrap was curled or the surface broken, that would tell him something else: the bag had been searched and he was in the Matarese sights. Ten minutes later he rang the bell of Theodore Goldman’s house on Brattle Street. It was opened by a slender, middle-aged woman, her face pleasant, her eyes curious. “Mrs. Goldman?” “Yes?” “I telephoned your husband a few minutes ago—” “Oh, yes, of course,” she interrupted. “Well, for heaven’s sake, get out of the rain! It’s coming down like the forty-day flood. Come in, come in. I’m Anne Goldman.” She took his coat and hat; he held his attache case. “I apologize for disturbing you.” “Don’t be foolish. Aaron told us all about that night in ... The Hague. You know, I’ve never been able to figure out where that place is. Why would a city be called the anything?” “It’s confusing.” “I gather our son was very confused that night; which is a mother’s way of saying he was plastered.” She gestured toward a squared-off, double doorway so common to old New England houses.
hamid_exit_west_Exit_West	2017	It was expensive to stay nearby, the camps there often having migrants with more money, and Saeed was becoming worried. But Nadia’s new friend was as good as her word, because very early one morning she put both Nadia and Saeed on the back of her scooter and sped them through still-qui et streets to a house on a hill with a courtyard. They dashed inside and there was a door. The girl wished them good luck, and she hugged Nadia tight, and Saeed was surprised to see what appeared to be tears in the girl’s eyes, or if not tears then at least a. misty shine, and Nadia hugged her too, and this hug lasted a long time, and the girl whispered something to her, whispered, and then she and Saeed turned and stepped through the door and left Mykonos behind. V They emerged in a bedroom with a view of the night sky and furnishings so expensive and well made that Saeed and Nadia thought they were in a hotel, of the sort seen in films and thick, glossy magazines, with pale woods and cream rugs and white walls and the gleam of metal here and there, metal as reflective as a mirror, framing the upholstery of a sofa, the switch plate for the lights.
lurie_foreign_affairs_Foreign_Affairs	1985	Let’s make hay while the sun shines,” she had said to him once, laughing softly. A few days later he had bought her a print of Breughel’s The Haymakers, and she had tacked it on the pale-flowered wallpaper above the night stand; it is still there. He knows now for sure that Mrs. Harris has been spying on them, sneaking round and listening at doors and/or on the kitchen extension. Sick, sickening. He turns away, giving up on his book and his shirt, wanting now only to get the hell out of here. “Excuse me, please,” he says angrily. But Mrs. Harris doesn’t move aside. Instead she stumbles even closer. Her dirty face, what little Fred can see of it under the peroxided hair, is smeared with what looks like a mixture of soot and lipstick; he can smell her unwashed odor and her foul breath. She puts out her hand, and the soiled flowered wrapper she is wearing falls open it; beneath it is incongruously white, voluptuous naked flesh. “Oh, darling!” she whispers in a drunken, wheezing imitation of Rosemary’s voice. She grabs Fred’s arm; she sags toward him and begins to rub her body against his. “Quit that!” he cries.
himes_if_he_hollers_let_him_go_If_He_Hollers_Let_Him_Go	1945	The cops picked me up and threw me into the squad car and when I asked them where they were taking me they said they were taking me to jail. When the squad car started with a jerk, I woke up. I was lying in bed. Outside the sun was shining bright. I’ve overslept, I thought suddenly, and jumped out of bed. Pain shot through my head like summer lightning. My mouth was full of quinine and cottony-dry. I frowned, turning my head carefully to look into the mirror. Then I remembered. I tried to stop it about Alice but it came back anyway. I felt an odd sort of embarrassment for her; a sort of mixture of shame and betrayal and repulsion. I hoped I wouldn’t have to see her for some time; not until I could get myself prepared to think about her again. I sat slowly down on the bed and looked about. The night kept coming back in brown, dirty memories. Parts of my dream were mingled with them. I began feeling remorseful. I despised myself. I wondered if I would ever be able to face people again. I was too ashamed to leave the room. All of a sudden I thought about my job. I could see it coming and couldn’t stop it.
lewis_arrowsmith_elmer_gantry_dodsworth_Elmer_Gantry	1927	the last, the only one, to get through it. He never remembered leaping, but he found himself in the surf, desperately swimming toward shore, horribly cold, horribly bound by heavy clothes. He humped out of his coat. In the inside pocket was Lily Anderson’s address, as she had given it to him before going that morning. The sea, by night, though it was glaring now with flames from above, seemed infinite in its black sightlessness. The waves thrust him among the piles; their mossy slime was like the feel of serpents to his frantic hands, and the barnacles cut his palms. But he struggled out from beneath the pier, struggled toward shore, and as he swam and panted, more and more was the sea blood-red about him. In blood he swam, blood that was icy-cold and tumultuous and roaring in his ears. His knees struck sand, and he crawled ashore, among a shrieking, torn, sea-soaked crowd. Many had leaped from the rail of the promenade and were still fighting the surf, wailing, beaten. Their wet and corpselike heads were seen clearly in the glare; the pier was only a skeleton, a cage round a boiling of flame, with dots of figures still dropping from the promenade.
cheever_stories_of_john_cheever_The_Stories_of_John_Cheever	1979	First, he had to put his broom in a closet. picked her up. She weighed smelled of soil. I carried her The closet door was warped and wouldn’t shut, and he spent an unconscionable amount of time trying to close it. I finally went outside and waited on the porch. It took him half an hour to get collected, and then, instead of starting for the villa, we went down into the village to find an acolyte. Presently a young boy joined us, pulling on a soiled lace soutane, and we started up the stairs. The priest negotiated ten steps and then sat down to rest. I had time to smoke a cigarette. Then ten more steps and another rest, and when we were halfway up the stairs, I began to wonder if he would ever make it. His face had turned from red to purple, and the noises from his respiratory tract were harsh and desperate. We finally arrived at the door of the villa. The acolyte lit his censer. Then we made our way into that ruined place. The windows were open. There was sea fog in the air. The old woman was in great pain, but the notes of her voice remained genteel, as I expect they truly were. “She is my daughter,” she said.
haley_roots_Roots	1977	“HEISH!” She went bolting toward her cabin in tears. “What come over her?” George asked Matilda after the others had left in embarrassment. “Ain’t you know?” she snapped. “Her mammy an’ pappy in Virginia las’ she know, an’ you scare her half to death!” Chicken George looked sick. His face told her he hadn’t realized, but Matilda refused to let him off that easily. She had become convinced that for all of his worldliness, he was sorely lacking in sensitivity about too many things. “You knows well as I does Mammy Kizzy been sol’ herself! Jes’ like I was!” she told him. “Anybody ever sol’ ain’t gwine never forgit it! An’ won’t never be de same no mo’!” She looked at him significantly. “You ain’t never been. Dat’s how come you don’t understan’ no massa cain’t never be trusted—includin’ your’n!” “What you rilin’ at me fo’?” he demanded testily. “You ax me what upset Mammy Kizzy an’ I tol’ you. Ain’t got no mo’ to say ’bout it!” Matilda caught herself. She didn’t want harshness between her and her husband.
martin_a_song_of_ice_and_fire_A_Game_of_Thrones	1996	He cocked his oversized head to one side and looked Jon over with his mismatched eyes. "I am Tyrion Lannister." "I know," Jon said. He rose. Standing, he was taller than the dwarf. It made him feel strange. "You're Ned Stark's bastard, aren't you?" Jon felt a coldness pass right through him. He pressed his lips together and said nothing. "Did I offend you?" Lannister said. "Sorry. Dwarfs don't have to be tactful. Generations of capering fools in motley have won me the right to dress badly and say any damn thing that comes into my head." He grinned. "You are the bastard, though." “Lord Eddard Stark is my father," Jon admitted stiffly. Lannister studied his face. "Yes," he said. "I can see it. You have more of the north in you than your brothers." "Half brothers," fon corrected. He was pleased by the dwarf's comment, but he tried not to let it show. "Let me give you some counsel, bastard," Lannister said. "Never forget what you are, for surely the world will not. Make it your strength. Then it can never be your weakness.
southgate_third_girl_from_the_left_Third_Girl_From_the_Left	2005	He loved the curve of her hips and buttocks under the modest dresses she favored, the sound of her laughter. Most times she was as orderly as any Tulsa housewife could be and he loved that too. But he also loved having a woman with a heart. He didn’t claim to understand it, but he knew it was there. He was a lucky man. After he left home that morning, he walked. He walked and walked. He didn’t even know where he was going. His hands were fists, his eyes blind. He must have walked for nearly two hours, maybe longer, a little past lunchtime, before he got so hot and dizzy that he had to stop. He stood in the sun for a few minutes, trying to get his bearings. Then he realized that he wasn’t far from Frank’s. Frank’s with its cool interior and sawdust-covered floor and cold beer and strong whiskey. He walked that way. He didn’t care who saw him go in, and plenty of people did. People who knew him. People who knew Mildred. He didn’t care. The interior of Frank’s was dark and comforting and at this time of day, nearly empty. A bartender made sleepy circles on the bar with a damp rag.
niland_the_shiralee_The_Shiralee	1955	Macauley knew Fang Davis. He was never done grizzling. If it wasn’t the weather it was the sheep. If it wasn’t the sheep it was the tucker, if not the tucker the accommodation. He had a mean, pinched-up, achy face, and went about with his hat brim cocked up at the back and a hand to his stomach as though he never felt too good. His day was an ordeal of jealousy and frustration. He was never satisfied with his tally. He would have done better only, he whinged, his back ached, he jinked his wrist, or his corns gave him gyp. The recollection made Macauley laugh impulsively. He went outside and surveyed the scene. Everything was nice and compact. A small two-room dwelling twenty yards from the cookhouse was the classer’s and expert’s quarters. The shed itself stood on a slight rise. He inspected it inside, the long board, the wool room, the empty bins, the slatted tables, the Ferrier press. The empty pens smelled of ammonia. Grass grew in the chutes. Soon the earth there would be trampled bare. Everything was ready to go. He walked down the slope. The first huts were the usual barrack-like building, three rooms adjoining and a door to each.
cornwell_cause_of_death_Cause_of_Death	1996	“And we’re not going to do that.” I 1 HAT NIGHT I went home because I needed clothes, and my passport was in the safe. I packed with nervous hands as I waited for my pager to beep. Fielding had been calling me on the hour to hear updates and air his concerns. The bodies at Old Point remained where the gunmen had left them, as best we knew, and we had no idea how many of the plant’s workers remained imprisoned inside. I slept restlessly under the watch of a police car parked on my street, and I sat up when the alarm clock startled me awake at five A.M. An hour and a half later, a Learjet awaited me at the Million- P A T II 1 Cl A C 1)11 N W E I L aire Terminal in Henrico Country, where the area’s wealthiest businessmen parked their helicopters and corporate planes. Wesley and I were polite but guarded as we greeted each other, and I was having trouble believing we were about to fly overseas together. But it had been planned that he would visit the embassy before it was suggested that I should go to London, too, and General Sessions did not know about our history. Or at least this was how I chose to view a situation that was out of my hands.
catton_the_luminaries_The_Luminaries	2013	If your passengers truly numbered eight, and Walter Moody was truly among them.” “Eight—and all accounted for. They took the lighter in to shore that afternoon—six hours, maybe seven hours, before we rolled.” “Then he must have taken a false name.” “Why would he do that?” “Well, perhaps he was lying, then. About having come over on Godspeed “Why would he do that?” Evidently Lydia Wells could not produce a response to this either, for after a moment she said, “What are you thinking, Francis?” “I’m thinking to write my old friend Adrian a letter.” “Yes, do,” said Mrs. Wells. “And I shall make some inquiries of my own.” “The insurance money did come through. Gascoigne was as good as his word.” Presendy she said, “Let’s to bed.” “You’ve had a trying day.” “A very trying day.” “It’ll all come out right, in the end.” “She’ll get what she deserves,” said Mrs. Wells. “I should also like to get what I deserve, Francis.” “It’s dreary for you, waiting.” “Frightfully.”
smith_strange_fruit_Strange_Fruit	1944	Sobbing. Somebody crying. You’re not crying . . . you . . . No light in the library. Just sounds. Young girl sounds. Laura. Never’d seen Laura cry. Everybody crying . . . crazy . . . everybody . . . better . . . Slowly he went up the stain, stopped on each step, feeling for the next with his foot. Slow and dull, as if he had heard strange bad news from a far country. TUT DROVE slowly home. Already late for dinner and with calls to make, he let the car move as slowly as it would through sand ruts; his mind moving with it along the ruts of right and wrong. You can’t change right and wrong because somebody you love stands in the middle of the road— Then what you do, run over herf But if something’s wrong and you do it to save Grace, then where are you—where’s your ethics—where’s your medical— Where’s little Gracet Let somebody else— Sure, let Aunt Mag with her dirt—let some crooked abortionist in Atlanta—let anybody do the sinning but— Tut straightened the car in the road. If a nigger had raped her it’d be different—it’d be different, but— What’s going to happen to Grace?
cozzens_guard_of_honor_Guard_of_Honor	1949	That’s what makes war so popular with people.” “This one isn’t popular with me,” Colonel Coulthard said. He shook his handsome white head. “Not the way I fight it. If I could get out to a combat air force—” “Oh, go on, Hal! ” Mrs. Beal called across the verandah. Her waspish tone seemed to say that she too was discontented with this war as it affected her, and with much better reason. She said brutally: “You’re too old and fat. You’re too lazy. We gave you the easiest job we could find, and still you’re kicking! Ira’s changing your efficiency rating to ‘poor,’ you know. You’ll never get anywhere.” “How’d you like to have a kid sister like that?” Colonel Coulthard placidly asked Colonel Ross. “Fresh brat, isn’t she?” “Oh, you!” Mrs. Beal said. “Why don’t you ever do anything, Hal? Why don’t you shake the lead out of your pants?” Dimly in the darkness, her white face, chin belligerently lifted, and her white dress, tensely stretched forward, could be made out. Her voice, throwing the fast jeering questions, trembled with impatience.
parks_getting_mothers_body_Getting_Mother_s_Body	2003	“They saying stuff.” We kissed as we drove down the road and then I started laughing cause he was tickling me and getting me undressed and showing me his sample book and driving all at the same time. His left hand on the wheel, his right hand between my legs. Then we pulled off the road. Then we did it. Now we done. “I’ll get you a whole damn carload full of panties, girl,” he says. “Them panties you had on is probably along the side of the road somewhere between here and Lincoln.” He smiles and I smile with him. I remember taking them off. The wind was whipping and musta whipped them out the window while we drove. But that was an hour ago. Now I look down the road, seeing if I can see them. I see somebody down there walking in the dirt and the shimmer from the heat. “I don’t wanna go home without no panties,” I says. “You worry too much,” Snipes says. All the car doors are open and the wind goes through, drying the sweat off the seats. “1 gotta know something,” I says. “Whut?” “The man’s supposed to ask the girl,” I whisper.
costain_the_silver_chalice_The_Silver_Chalice	1953	“I have never liked you,” he said. “You seemed to me as poor in spirit as a tinker’s mule. But now I find myself conceiving an admiration for you. I have changed my opinion so much that I shall make a bargain with you. Listen.” He wiped away the tears that laughter had brought to his eyes. “The man who brought me the information about the Cup, for which I paid handsomely, had something else of importance for my ears. It concerns you, my friend with the temper that kindles slowly, you and the money you are to inherit. I shall tell you what it is if you, on the other hand, will make me this promise: that you will not in any way interfere with Rub Samuel’s men and that the instant your father’s eyes close in death you will call them in to guard the house while you search for the Cup. That you will promise, moreover, to tear down every partition in the house, if necessary, and raise every foot of flooring until you find it; and that you will then bring it to me.” The vigor with which he had spoken had brought a purple tinge to the High Priest’s cheeks. He stopped for several moments while struggling to regain his breath.
morrison_paradise_Paradise	1998	He thought, with alarm, that the old man was going to try to get to a town in the middle of the night, or apply to one of the farms where dark sod houses nestled up against a hillock. But Big Papa took him deeper into the piney wood where the odor of resin, lovely at first, soon gave him a headache. The sky was brilliant with stars that dwarfed the crescent moon, turning it into a shed feather. Big Papa stopped and with groaning effort knelt down. “My Father,” he said. “Zechariah here.” Then, after a few seconds of total silence, he began to hum the sweetest, saddest sounds Rector ever heard. Rector joined Big Papa on his knees and stayed that way all night. He dared not touch the old man or interfere with his humming prayer, but he couldn’t keep up and sat back on his haunches to relieve the pain in his knees. After a while he sat all the way down, holding his hat in his hand, his head bowed, trying to listen, stay awake, understand. Finally he lay on his back and watched the star trail above the trees. The heartbreaking music swallowed him, and he felt himself floating inches aboveground. He swore later that he did not fall asleep.
faulkner_a_fable_A_Fable	1955	Until that night last month and that was the old dame’s fault; all she needed to do was tell us where it was and then lay quiet and keep her mouth shut but that didn’t suit her, she had to lay there in the bed hollering her head off until Horse here had to shut her up—you know: no harm intended: just to squeeze her throat a little until we could have a little peace and quiet to hunt for it in. Only we forgot about the hands, and when I got back------’ ‘Got back?’ the corporal said. ‘I was downstairs hunting for the money.—got back, it was too late. So they caught us. And you’d have thought that would have satisfied them, especially as they even got the money back-----’ ‘You found the money?’ the corporal said. ‘Sure. While he was keeping her quiet. —But no, that wasn’t enough-----’ “You found the money and had got away with it, and then turned around and came back?’ ‘What?’ the other said. ‘Why did you change your mind?’ the corporal said. After a second the other said: ‘Fag me again.’ The corporal gave him another cigarette. ‘Thanks,’ he said.
aidoo_our_sister_killjoy_Our_Sister_Killjoy	1977	Every year, in fact, to see my mother . . . find out my younger brothers and sisters are doing . . . I support everybody: grandparents, aunts, cousins. And incidentally, I can afford to do all that only because I am still here ... I have helped lots of relatives to come here too . .. . But as I was saying, I am home every winter for at least four weeks. It is necessary for one’s perspective. So refreshing. Keeps one in touch with reality. And not only that. It is proving very useful . . . You know that area so often discussed, so much speculated on ? The marriage of African traditional medical insights with western clinical expertise? Well, people just talk. But they have not got the slightest idea of what it’s all about. It is an explosion . . . But that was just by the way. What I am trying to tell you is that I have come to regard my annual visit home as a very revitalising process. Other than that, Sister, I feel okay here. And after all, wherever one feels at home must be home. This earth belongs to us all. We can perch anywhere.’ ‘But we are not birds.’ Obviously, I had got myself back.
o_brien_house_of_splendid_isolation_House_of_Splendid_Isolation	1994	“And now?” I said. “The South forgot us,” he said. Forlorn. Aggrieved. A likeness to those children in fable, banished again and again, exiled in lakes for hundreds of years, cut off from the homeland. “Now there are two wars . . . one with the English and one with ourselves,” I said. “Sadly,” and then, in a more civil voice, he mentioned that he had liked me from the very start, had an intuition about me, that I was a good woman. The only thing of beauty in the morning room is an oil lamp on its Corinth base. The bowl has oil in it, oil the colour of red currants and viscous like gum. A beautiful tinted shade enfolds the long, thin globe. A thing of beauty, rose red at the base, then fading to a near transparency, and then at the top fluting to a wavy red-rose border. I pointed to it, said there was a drop of oil left, and it could be lit. He apologised, said he was sorry for all the various embargoes, the rules, said then that he hated that day when he tackled me about the walk, because of course I needed fresh air, it’s only natural.
scott_the_manikin_The_Manikin	1997	Nature’s gift. Hannah? From a mile away he hears the low-voiced shriek of her reply. Come back. He wants to see her again. His Hannah. His angel. He has finally seen an angel. He wishes she would come back and glide close enough to the open window so he could reach out and touch her. Is an angel insubstantial, like fog or smoke, or would her feathers feel like the finest silk? Dear Hannah. It occurs to him that he’d better sit down or his weak legs will collapse beneath him. With some difficulty he lowers himself to the floor. Demons have sewn stones into his hands, poked pins and needles into his legs, drenched him with a bucketful of fever. He is shivering, his sweating skin ice-cold on the inside, hot on the surface. He recognizes the malady as one of those sudden summer fevers he’s prone to, fevers as short-lived as they are powerful. He needs to rest, that’s all. A midnight snooze. Nothing else to do but stretch out on the floor and pull the blanket of moonlight up to his chin. It is a night fit for profound mysteries, and Sylva is stumbling along a woodland path, trying to make sense of the mystery of her pain.
connelly_the_black_echo_The_Black_Echo	1992	It would be perfect. It was an antique, the kind where the handset was cradled above a rotary dial. Binh moved toward his desk but Bosch quickly spoke up. “Mr. Binh? Would it be okay if we sat over here on the couch? We’d like to keep this as informal as possible. We sit at desks all day, to tell you the truth.” Binh shrugged his shoulders as though it made no difference to him, that they were inconveniencing him no matter where they sat. It was a distinctly American gesture, and Bosch believed his seeming difficulty with English was a front used to better insulate him. Binh sat down on one side of the L-shaped couch and Eleanor and Bosch took the other. “Nice office,” Bosch said and looked around. He saw no other phone in the room. Binh nodded. He offered no tea or coffee, no small talk. He just said, “What do you want, please?” Bosch looked at Eleanor. She said, “Mr. Binh, we are just retracing our steps. You reported no financial loss in the vault break-in. We—” “That is right. No loss.” “That is correct. What did you keep in the box?” “Nothing.”
wicomb_davids_story_David_s_Story	2000	Occasionally a real doctor is brought along. He is uncomfortable in the balaclava and the black tracksuit, from which his white hands dangle pathetically; his movements are stilted, reluctant, shot through with self-hatred. He keeps his eyes averted, does not speak, but shame leaks from his fingertips into her wounds. Sometimes in the delirium of pain she wishes to say something soothing, comforting, for she knows that he does not understand the ways of the world, the ugly secrets of war, that he has stumbled upon them without warning, without training. But she cannot trust the words to come out unmangled. Out of delicacy she does not speak, remains dry-eyed. One day she will weep like a gargoyle. Tears will fountain from every orifice, including the man made ones, washing away the grimy contact, washing her retinas clean, so that she can see clearly how things stand in the world. The new world, that is. David stares at me impassively, shaking his head, refusing to speak. I have forgotten about his training. Alright, he says at last, I’ve remembered something Dulcie once told me. Can’t remember exactly when or why she did but perhaps you’ll find it significant. He places equal stress on all four syllables of significant.
devi_imaginary_maps_Imaginary_Maps	1995	If it had been a bit closer the villagers might have started living in the abandoned brick built house. For people who live in villages like Kuruda, life holds few breaks other than annual festivals. So their eyes are charmed by the scenes on top of Kuruda Hill. When Mary Oraon comes up, she looks at the train, as the passengers look at her if they see her. Eighteen years old, tall, flat-featured, light copper skin. Usually she wears a print sari. At a distance she looks most seductive, but close up you see a strong message of rejection in her glance. You wouldn’t call her a tribal at first sight. Yet she is a tribal. Once upon a time whites had timber plantations in Kuruda. They left gradually after Independence. Mary’s mother looked after the Dixons’ bungalow and household. Dixon’s son came back in 1959 and sold the house, the forest, everything else. He put Mary in Bhikni’s womb before he left. He went to Australia. The padre at the local church christened her Mary. Bhikni was still a Christian. But when Prasadji from Ranchi came to live in the Dixon bungalow and refused to employ Bhikni, she gave up Christianity. Mary pastures the Prasads’ cattle. She is a most capable cowherd.
dunbar_the_sport_of_the_gods_gutenberg_pg17854_The_Sport_of_the_Gods	1902	Of course, he went hot and cold by turns, and the sweat broke out on his brow, but instantly he began to swell. He had made a decided advance in knowledge, and he swelled with the consciousness that already he was coming to be a man of the world. He looked with a new feeling at the swaggering, sporty young negroes. His attitude towards them was not one of humble self-depreciation any more. Since last night he had grown, and felt that he might, that he would, be like them, and it put a sort of chuckling glee into his heart. One might find it in him to feel sorry for this small-souled, warped being, for he was so evidently the jest of Fate, if it were not that he was so blissfully, so conceitedly, unconscious of his own nastiness. Down home he had shaved the wild young bucks of the town, and while doing it drunk in eagerly their unguarded narrations of their gay exploits. So he had started out with false ideals as to what was fine and manly. He was afflicted by a sort of moral and mental astigmatism that made him see everything wrong. As he sat there to-night, he gave to all he saw a wrong value and upon it based his ignorant desires.
naylor_women_of_brewster_place_The_Women_of_Brewster_Place	1982	He had simply touched her forehead and went to call her mother to come and change her nightgown. It was her mother, and not him, who later told her that he had neglected his farm and insisted on sitting by her bed every day—all day—while the life was burning and sweating out of her pores. It became a legend in those parts, and even her mother never knew how he had gotten the white doctor from town to make that long trip to the house for her. Sam never mentioned it, and no one dared ask. But this silence was different. It was compressed tightly in a vacuum that was so vast that her spirit grew weary attempting to cross it, and so it would return to her to rest feverishly against her sorrowing heart. “Mama, I can’t stand much more of this,” she whispered miserably to her mother, as they were washing the dinner dishes. Her father had stonily finished his meal and gone out to his rocker, where he would sit reading his Bible until late in the night. “Don’t worry, baby,” Fannie sighed, “he’ll come round. This here thing done hurt him, that’s all.” “Oh, Mama, I’m so ashamed.” “Ain’t nothing to be shamed of.
rao_kanthapura_Kanthapura	1938	You are our eldest son, and you have to give us at least a grandson so that when we are dead our manes will be satisfied,” but Sankar smiled back again and said, “If you want the marriage thread to be tied in an ocean of tears, I shall. But otherwise I will not. I have a daughter and I will bring her up. And you will come and stay with me and we shall have a household running,” and the old mother wept and the old father knit his eyebrows, but Sankar smiled back and said, “I shall obey you,” but they did not press him further, and they said, “His wife Usha was such a godlike woman. She would never utter a word loud, and never say ‘nay’ to anything. And when she walked the streets, they always say what a holy wife she was and beaming with her wifehood, and never a mother-in-law had a daughter-in-law like her,” and they both said, “Well, we can understand Sankaru. When one has lost Usha nothing can replace her.” And they never again gave Sankar’s horoscope to anyone, and they came to stay with him and look after his sanctum and his child.
mcdermott_at_weddings_and_wakes_At_Weddings_and_Wakes	1993	She was a plump woman in a narrow turquoise dress and her breasts seemed to move in one solid pair as she jumped—down toward her waist and up toward her chin—her short strand of pearls snapping above them. Then Aunt May was pushed out onto the floor and Mrs. Hynes pulled her husband. Then their mother and Veronica, doing the step dance they had learned in grammar school, then Agnes and another woman and, wonder of wonders, Aunt Agnes was also shoeless, her spine straighter and her hands stiffer at her side, her feet livelier than any of the others. Aunt Arlene found Rosemary as the other guests joined in and the four remaining cousins took what space was left on the floor to do their own swinging square dance, clapping and skipping and swinging each other wildly since they had never learned to do a jig. Then the musicians were playing a Mexican hat dance and Fred and May were once more left to the center, Fred kicking and spinning while Aunt May, her hands placed lightly on her hips, merely bent with laughter. Then “Hava nagila” and the circle they all had formed began to spin until with a whoop they raised their joined hands and rushed toward the bride and groom. Then the music changed again and they were doing the twist, then the cha-cha, the lindy.
evanovich_one_for_the_money_One_for_the_Money	1994	His loyalties were carved in stone, and he wasn’t about to be impressed by some upstart of a toaster salesman who drove a Bonneville. Bemie turned to me. “So what are you doing now?” I fiddled with my fork. My day hadn’t exactly been a success, and announcing to the world that I was a fugitive apprehension agent seemed presumptuous. “I sort of work for an insurance company,” I told him. “You mean like a claims adjuster?” “More like collections.” “She’s a bounty hunter!” Grandma Mazur announced. “She tracks down dirty rotten fugitives just like on television. She’s got a gun and everything.” She reached behind her to the sideboard, where I’d left my shoulder bag. “She’s got a whole pocketbook full of paraphernalia,” Grandma Mazur said, setting my bag on her lap. She pulled out the cuffs, the beeper, and a travel pack of tampons and set them on the table. “And here’s her gun,” she said proudly. “Isn’t it a beauty?” I have to admit it was a pretty cool gun. It had a stainless steel frame and carved wood grips. It was a Smith and Wesson 5-shot revolver, Model 60.
banks_the_wasp_factory_The_Wasp_Factory	1984	I asked him to go to the shed and take all my kites away and burn them, which he duly did, in a hollow now called Kite Pyre Dell. I was sorry about the kites, and I knew that I’d have to give up flying them for good to keep the act looking realistic, but it was worth it. Esmerelda never did show up; nobody saw her after me, as far as Diggs’ enquiries of trawlers and drilling-rigs and so on could show. So I got to even up the score and have a wonderful, if demanding, week of fun acting. The flowers that I had still been clutching when they carried me back to the house had been prised from my fingers and left in a plastic bag on top of the fridge. I discovered them there, shrivelled and dead, forgotten and unnoticed, two weeks later. I took them for the shrine in the loft one night, and have them to this day, little brown twists of dried plant like old Sellotape, stuck in a little glass bottle. I wonder sometimes where my cousin ended up; at the bottom of the sea, or washed on to some craggy and deserted shore, or blown on to a high mountain face, to be eaten by gulls or eagles. . . .
butler_seed_to_harvest_Clay’s_Ark	1984	Decide it was okay for me to fuck him?" Keira jumped. Not for the first time, she was grateful she was not as light-skinned as Rane. Nothing made Rane blush. Everything would have made Keira blush. "I just thought you liked him," Keira muttered. "What if I do? He's your father, not the other way around." Keira tried once more. "Did you bring him the blanket?" she asked. "And food?" She had seen an empty plate on the floor near him. "Yeah, so what?" "Thank you," Keira said sincerely. She went back into the closet, waited to see whether the girl would put the cuffs back on her. But the girl only looked at her, then closed the door. Keira waited for the soft click of the lock, but did not hear it. Moments later, she heard the girl's footsteps going away. Keira was almost free. With her enhanced senses, she might be able to slip out of the house, escape. Alone. But the white-haired girl had given her a choice she did not want—to challenge the car family by attempting to escape, to desert her own family, or to remain in dangerous captivity.
deeping_the_bridge_of_desire_The_Bridge_of_Desire	1931	“Wouldn’t care to walk over with me, Magnus?” Brough stared at him, round-eyed, over the top of the coffee pot. “My dear chap!” There was a challenging surprise in his voice. It stung Frensham, brought him round sharply to face the issue. “Do you think I find it easy ?” “I should think you would rather face gun fire.” “That would be child’s play. Funny that a woman’s eyes should be more terrible than a row of rifles! I’m a coward.” “No one else can do the thing for you.” “I know. It’s part of the punishment.” Brough bolted a mouthful of hot roll, and expostulated. “Fudge!—bosh!—don’t be a fool!” “Yes, and I am going to ask her to forget everything; as though I had never behaved like a fool and a cad!” “My dear chap, don’t brood about it. Go and tell her everything, abuse yourself as much as you please, ask her to help you. She’s bigger-hearted than you are, and life may mean more to both of you after this.” “I have learned my lesson, Brough.” “Well, go and tell her.
leguin_the_left_hand_of_darkness_The_Left_Hand_of_Darkness	1969	Harge rem ir Tibe was still close to us, overhearing, and I felt that he was meant to overhear. Annoyed by this sense of effeminate intrigue 1 got off the platform and lost myself in the mob, crouching and slouching somewhat to do so. I’m not much taller than the Gethenian norm, but the difference is most noticeable in a crowd. That's him, look, there's the Envoy. Of course that was part of my job, but it was a part that got harder not easier as time went on; more and more often I longed for anonymity, for sameness. I craved to be like everybody else. A couple of blocks up Breweries Street I turned off toward my lodgings and suddenly, there where the crowd thinned out, found Tibe walking beside me. “A flawless event,” said the king’s cousin, smiling at me. His long, clean, yellow teeth appeared and disappeared in a yellow face all webbed, though he was not an old man, with fine, soft wrinkles. “A good augury for the success of the new Port,” I said. “Yes indeed.” More teeth. “The ceremony of the keystone is most impressive—” “Yes indeed. That ceremony descends to us from very-long-ago.
ondaatje_the_english_patient_The_English_Patient	1992	“Get your Italian friend to find seeds for you, he seems capable in that category. What you want are plum leaves. Also fire pink and Indian pink—if you want the Latin name for your Latin friend, it is Silene virginica. Red savory is good. If you want finches get hazel and chokecherries.’’ She writes everything down. Then puts the fountain pen into the drawer of the small table where she keeps the book she is reading to him, along with two candles, Vesta matches. There are no medical supplies in this room. She hides them in other rooms. If Caravaggio is to hunt them out, she doesn’t want him disturbing the Englishman. She puts the slip of paper with the names of plants into the pocket of her dress to give to Caravaggio. Now that physical attraction has raised its head, she has begun to feel awkward in the company of the three men. If it is physical attraction. If all this has to do with love of Kip. She likes to lay her face against the upper reaches of his arm, that dark brown river, and to wake submerged within it, against the pulse of an unseen vein in his flesh beside her. The vein she would have to locate and insert a saline solution into if he were dying.
jemisin_the_stone_sky_The_Stone_Sky	2017	This is a group force-march along a highroad that is shaky and full of holes big enough to drop a house through. Highroads are built to withstand shakes, but there’s a limit, and the Rifting definitely surpassed it. Ykka decided to take the risk because even a damaged highroad is faster to travel than the desert sand, but this takes a toll. Every orogene in the comm has to stay on alert, because anything worse than a microshake while you’re up here could spell disaster. One day Penty, too exhausted to pay attention to her own instincts, steps on a patch of cracked asphalt that’s completely unstable. One of the other rogga kids snatches her away just as a big piece simply falls through the substructure of the road. Others are less careful, and less lucky. The acid rain was unexpected. Stonelore does not discuss the ways in which Seasons can impact weather, because such things are unpredictable at the best of times. What happens here is not entirely surprising, however. Northward, at the equator, the Rifting pumps heat and particulates into the air. Moisture-laden tropical winds coming off the sea hit this cloud-seeding, energyinfusing wall, which whips them into storm. You remember being worried about snow. No. It’s endless, miserable rain.
larsen_quicksand_Quicksand	1928	No family. That was the crux of the whole matter. For Helga, it accounted for everything, her failure here in Naxos, her former loneliness in Nashville. It even accounted for her engagement to James. Negro society, she had learned, was as complicated and as rigid in its ramifications as the highest strata of white society. If you couldn’t prove your ancestry and connections, you were tolerated, but you didn’t “belong.” You could be queer, or even attractive, or bad, or brilliant, or even love beauty and such nonsense if you were a Rankin, or a Leslie, or a Scoville; in other words, if you had a family. But if you were just plain Helga Crane, of whom nobody had ever heard, it was presumptuous of you to be anything but inconspicuous and conformable. To relinquish James Vayle would most certainly be social suicide, for the Vayles were people of consequence. The fact that they were a “first family” had been one of James’s attractions for the obscure Helga. She had wanted social background, but— she had not imagined that it could be so stuffy. She made a quick movement of impatience and stood up. As she did so, the room whirled about her in an impish, hateful way.
powell_a_small_gathering_of_bones_A_Small_Gathering_of_Bones	2003	End of April 1978 i Them release Ian from out the hospital not long after, saying him need plenty rest, lots of fresh air, no more cigarette smoking and haul and pulling of the body. Hardly a day pass when Dale didn't go to see him up at Spauldings General. Standing with the nurses and doctors, him watch as them wring hands and shake heads, narrow eyes fold over perplexed at the nature of the illness. The nurse lady Dale pull one side didn't have much to say. No, she didn't see any particular puncture hole, so it can't be asthma or any kind of lung abscess. But X-ray results will come out next week. She can't understand herself what cause the pain in the chest and shoulder area. What exactly him spitting up in such abundance. Maybe pneumonia, but them still drawing blood and testing. Bill did bring Ian home the morning along with all the get-well bouquets and store-wrap chocolate. It was pouring rain the evening Nevin and Dale drive over to see him. All along Red Hills Road, cars, buses, six-wheel trailer trucks back-up behind one another, tyres slicing through thick, heavy mud. Road block, the news trickle down from the plain clothes police man directing traffic.
okri_the_famished_road_The_Famished_Road	1991	It watched us the whole time. ‘I will discuss it with his mother.’ ‘Good.’ ‘But these people I owe money, what about them?’ ‘What about them?’ ‘You were going to tell me something.’ ‘Didn’t your son tell you?’ ‘What?’ ‘That they threw stones at your wife?’ ‘Who? Who threw stones?’ Madame Koto got up and fetched some more palm-wine. ‘I can’t tell you.’ Dad turned to me, and he looked so fierce that before he asked me anything I told him who the people were and what had happened. He downed half a glass of palm-wine in one gulp, rubbed the spillings all over his sweating face, and stormed out of the bar without paying. By the time we got to our compound Dad had managed to whip himself up into a fantastic rage. We ran into one of the creditors who was just coming out of the toilet. Dad went straight up to him and without saying a single word he feinted with a right jab at the fellow’s face and punched him in the stomach. The creditor bent over, grunting, and Dad grabbed him round the waist and threw him, back first, on the ground.
desai_the_clear_light_of_day_Clear_Light_of_Day	1980	Raja always admired Hyder Ali Sahib - probably envied him cutting such a fine figure on the white horse, a servant running ahead of him to clear the way of rabble like us and a dog to bring up the rear. Impressive, I suppose - and wasn’t Raja impressed! See, this late in life, he’s still trying to be Hyder Ali Sahib,’ she laughed. ‘Hyder Ali Sahib was his ideal in life and it’s the ideal he’s still pursuing, poor Raja. To gratify his own boyhood desire, he now forces his poor little boy to ride. Terrible, isn’t it, how parents drive their children to fulfil their own ungratified desires?’ Her face shone with vindication as if it were oily. Tara drew back, affronted. ‘I don’t think little Riyaz is at all aware of his father’s ungratified desires,’ she said, primly. ‘No, but he will be. When that pony throws him and he howls and no longer wants to ride and his father insists he get back on, then he will know what it’s all for.’ ‘Why do you foresee such terrible things?’ Tara protested, wincing, her maternal instinct touched as if with a knife-point. ‘The pony won’t throw little Riyaz.
macinnes_a_three_novel_omnibus_Assignment_in_Brittany	1941	He would just have to take especial care tonight in his short journey to St. D£odat, and then no explanations would be necessary to any curious patrol. He examined the map for the last time. He must be able to remember the details of the district to the north and west of this wood, to reach the toy railway which trailed the main road from Rennes to St. Malo. It would guide him part of the way. The rest would depend on his knowledge of these thin and thick red lines and winding black ones. He had looked at them so often in the past few days that they were etched on his memory as well as on this map. At last he admitted that he could do no more, that he must depend now on a combination of intelligence and intuition. There would be no moon tonight, but if the sky stayed clear the stars would be enough. Failing them, it would have to be by guess and by God. He settled himself more comfortably in his bracken bed. The sweet smell of fern and grass, the warmth of the sun, the increasing hum of the innumerable insects, drowsed him pleasantly. He felt himself slipping into light sleep. Tomorrow, he was thinking, tomorrow Bertrand Corlay would be home. CHAPTER O NIGHT JOURNEY A cool breeze awakened him.
robinson_housekeeping_Housekeeping	1982	She was a nameless woman, and so at home among all those who were never found and never missed, who were uncommemorated, whose deaths were not remarked, nor their begettings. The old woman in the comer looked at me sidelong, steadily. She stuck a long finger far into her mouth to feel a tooth. Then she said, “She’s gettin’ growed.” Sylvie replied, “She’s a good girl.” “Like you always said.” The woman winked at me. So we sailed above the water rickety click into Finger-bone, and Sylvie and I climbed down in the freight yard. And then we walked home. Our dishevelment was considerable. But the ruin of my clothes was entirely concealed by Sylvie’s coat, which hung beyond my fingertips in the sleeves, and to within an inch of my ankles. Sylvie combed back her hair with her fingers, and then hugged her ribs and assumed an expression of injured dignity. “Don’t mind if they stare,” she said. We walked through town. Sylvie fixed her gaze six inches above eye level, but in fact no one stared, though many people glanced at us, and then glanced a second time. At the drugstore we passed Lucille and her friends, though Sylvie seemed not to notice.
shaik_the_mayor_of_new_orleans_The_Mayor_of_New_Orleans:_Just_Talking_Jazz	1987	Levia studied those estates in the city magazine that her mother ordered to come weekly to their home. And when she and her mother drove around, exploring the city, as they did often, Levia counted streets and streets of these massive and imposing buildings. Some had four big, square, brick front-porch pillars, that her mother called, “grandiose Creole.” Others had smooth, round, white columns, “southern Greek.” Shingled roofs came down low to just top the cut-glass front doors that sparkled like diamonds. Levia liked to believe these doors were locked like the treasure trunks in her mythology books and held great mysteries and came from secret places. But Levia’s mother reminded her as they drove that everything she saw was the product of “hard work.” And, occasionally, as they passed the houses, she said, “Slave labor.” But she didn’t say that often because it stopped both of them from talking and she knew Levia liked to dream aloud. “I’m going to have a big house on St. Charles Avenue someday.” Her mother said, “You better learn first to keep clean.” “And I’ll have a library of books in two rooms and a horse in a stall near the back by the park.”
hurston_their_eyes_were_watching_god_Their_Eyes_Were_Watching_God	1937	Janie turned from the door without answering, and stood still in the middle of the floor without knowing it. She turned wrongside out just standing there and feeling. When the throbbing calmed a little she gave Logan’s speech a hard thought and placed it beside other things she had seen and heard. When she had finished with that she dumped the dough on the skillet and smoothed it over with her hand. She wasn’t even angry. Logan was accusing her of her mamma, her grandmama and her feelings, and she couldn’t do a thing about any of it. The sow-belly in the pan needed turning. She flipped it over and shoved it back. A little cold water in the coffee pot to settle it. Turned the hoe-cake with a plate and then made a little laugh. What was she losing so much time for? A feeling of sudden newness and change came over her. Janie hurried out of the front gate and turned south. Even if Joe was not there waiting for her, the change was bound to do her good. The morning road air was like a new dress. That made her feel the apron tied around her waist. She untied it and flung it on a low bush beside the road and walked on, picking flowers and making a bouquet.
styron_confessions_of_nat_turner_The_Confessions_of_Nat_Turner	1968	Even so, our work of death was not absolutely exhaustive, not complete, and I am far from sure that this was not the ruination of my mission, since it took but a single soul to raise the alarm. And I must admit to a failing on my own part which may have caused more than anything else the fact of the resistance we began to encounter the following day and which slowed us to a fatal pace. For as I told Gray, late that afternoon just before twilight at the Harris farm we had seen a young white girl of fourteen or so flee to the woods, screaming her terror as she rushed into the haven of a grove of juniper trees. And Gray himself had established that it was this girl who had managed to reach the Williams place near dark, allowing that fortunate man to hide his family and his slaves and to ride off north, spreading the alarm. In turn it had been that alarm which may or may not (I cannot be certain) have given the enemy their ultimate advantage and tipped the balance against us. What I failed to confide to Gray is that it had not been "us” who had seen her but I alone, rocking weary in the saddle as dusk descended and my men killed and ransacked and looted the Harris house.
petry_street_The_Street	1946	If she was in the kitchen, she would keep turning her head, listening, while she scrubbed the floor or cleaned the stove, until, unable to endure not knowing where he was or what he was doing, she would finally tiptoe to the living-room door only to find that he was sitting here on this sofa, biting his lips, glaring at her with eyes so bloodshot, so filled with hate, that she would turn and scuttle hastily back to the kitchen. Or if she was in the bedroom she would sit on the edge of the bed, watching the doorway, half-expecting to sec him appear there suddenly, and then the silence from the living room would force her to get up and look at him only to find his hate-filled eyes focused straight at her. She got up from the sofa, satisfied. She had full made up her mind now and she would never regret going, for there wasn’t anything else for her to do. He was more than flesh and blood could bear. She carefully inspected the kitchen to make certain none of her belongings were there and then entered the bathroom where she took a five-pound package of Epsom salts from under the sink. There was nothing of hers in the living room but the table and the canary’s cage.
michener_the_source_The_Source	1965	I’ll send Zodman a cable that will break his heart.” He began to play an imaginary violin. Cullinane advised, “Let’s wait till we get confirmation from Chicago on the carbon dating,” and the three leaders spurred the workmen to close down the dig, but each day one or the other crawled down the tunnel to sit beside the well of Makor where living creatures had crouched two hundred thousand years before. For each of the archaeologists it was a mystic rite, huddling there in the cavern: to Tabari it was a return to the ancient sources of his people; to Eliav it was the spot where man had begun his long wrestling match with the concept of God; to Cullinane it was the beginning of those philosophical analyses with which he would be engaged for the balance of his life; but to all it was the source, the primeval spot where the growth of civilizations had begun. At the end of the week Chicago reported: YOUR LEVEL NINETEEN STOP WE GET A FIRM SIXTY-FIVE THOUSAND PLUS-MINUS FOUR STOP CONGRATULATIONS As soon as he read the confirming report Tabari drafted a hearts-and-flowers cable to Paul Zodman, begging him for money. When Cullinane read it he growled, “It’s repulsive. I forbid you to send it.”
kay_trumpet_Trumpet	2000	Joss shows me a side to my mother I never knew existed. New people can do that. People outside your family can reveal another person, brightly lit, gleaming underneath all the tweed she’s worn for years. I would never have dreamt that my mother would dance round my living room with my husband, that she would have a go on his trumpet, that she’d stay up late talking about how jealous a man my father was. My weak placid father. I actually found my mother interesting when listening to her conversations with Joss. I heard stories I’d never heard before; or I heard stories I’d heard many times, but now suddenly they were entertaining, fascinating. I couldn’t understand it. Had I done her a disservice all these years? Or do all children do that to their parents? On one of my mother’s visits, Joss had a terrible flu and was quite feverish with it. My mother kept insisting on calling the doctor. She believed in illness like some people believe in God. She was fervent, righteous, informed. He’ll need antibiotics. It could be one of those killer foreign flus. You’ve heard about them. The China flu. They come in on the winds from abroad. There was a programme about it on the television.
steel_zoya_Zoya	1988	“Is there anything I can do for you, Alix?” She shook her head, still proud, still austere, and conceal her shock and pain as she listened to what he said. She was being put under house arrest, along with her family and her servants and her children. She wanted not to believe his words, but it was inevitable now. The end had come, and they all had to face it. He explained carefully that anyone who wished to remain with them could, but if they chose to leave, they would not be allowed to return to Tsar-skoe Selo. It was staggering news, and it took all of her strength not to swoon as she listened. “And my husband, General?” “We believe he will be here by morning.” “And will you imprison him?” She felt physically ill as she asked, but she had to know now. She had to know all of it, what they could expect and what they were facing. And after the tales she had heard in the past few days, she supposed she should be grateful that they weren’t all killed, but in the face of what was happening it was difficult to be grateful. “Your husband will be under house arrest here at Tsarskoe Selo.”
heyer_frederica_Frederica	1965	‘Nevertheless, I — er — contrive to keep myself tolerably well amused!’ ‘Oh, yes, but that’s not —’ She stopped, and her colour rose. ‘I beg your pardon! I wish I could learn to keep my tongue!’ He ignored this, saying, with a wry smile: ‘You do hold me in contempt, don’t you, Frederica?’ ‘No, no!’ she said quickly. ‘You choose to call me a green girl, but I have cut my eye-teeth, you know, and I’m not wholly paper-skulled! How could you help but become bored when you have been able to command every — every agreeable luxury all your life? I expect, too,’ she added wisely, ‘that you were very much indulged, being your parents’ only son.’ Remembering the cold formality of his father, and, with more difficulty, the brief glimpses which had been granted to him of his fashionable mother, who had died while he was still at school, the sardonic curl to his mouth became more pronounced; but all he said was: ‘Very true! I came into the world hosed and shod, and was so precious to my parents that a special establishment was created for me.
melamud_the_fixer_The_Fixer	1967	He felt listless, despondent. Zhitnyak watched him through the hole, peeking in from the side. The diarrhea occurred more frequently, and after it Yakov lay, enervated and panting, on the mattress. Though he was very weak he kept up the fire in the stove all day and Zhitnyak did not say no. The fixer still felt cold and nothing seemed to warm him. The one good thing was that there were now no searches. He asked again to be sent to the infirmary but when the Deputy Warden came into the cell, he said, “Eat your food and cut out malingering. Starving is what makes you sick.” Yakov forced himself to eat and after a few spoonfuls it was not too bad. Later he vomited. He vomited repeatedly although there was nothing left in his stomach. And at night he had terrible dreams, visions of mass slaughter that left him sleepless, moaning. When he dozed again people were being cut down by Cossacks with sabers. Yakov was shot running into the woods. Yakov, hiding under a table in his hut, was dragged forth and beheaded. Yakov, fleeing along a rutted road, had lost an arm, an eye, his bloody balls; Raisl, lying on the sanded floor, had been raped beyond caring, her fruitless guts were eviscerated.
ludlum_the_ludlum_triad_The_Bourne_Identity	1980	But he did know it! It was only the name he could not find! He spiraled back off his feet, behind the heavy copper dry bar. Gunshots came, two . . . three, the second bullet tearing the flesh of his left forearm. He pulled his automatic from his belt; he had three shots left. One of them had to find its mark—Carlos. There was a debt to pay in Paris, and a contract to fulfill, his love far safer with the assassin’s death. He took the plastic lighter from his pocket, ignited it and held it beneath a bar rag suspended from a hook. The cloth caught fire; he grabbed it and threw it to his right, as he dove to his left. Carlos fired at the flaming rag, as Bourne spun to his knees, leveling his gun, pulling the trigger twice. The figure buckled but did not fall. Instead, he crouched, then sprang like a white panther diagonally forward, his hands outstretched. What was he doing? Then Jason knew. The assassin gripped the edge of the huge silver screen, ripping it from its metal bracket in the ceiling, pulling it downward with all his weight and strength. It floated down above Bourne, filling his vision, blocking everything else from his mind.
mckinney_whetstone_trading_dreams_at_midnight_Trading_Dreams_at_Midnight	2008	More out of habit than the desire to know him more, Neena asked Cliff for a card. He reached beneath his coat into his breast pocket. “You haven’t been denied access because of your race or gender lately, have you?” he asked, trying to make a joke. “Not tonight, but the night is young,” she said as she fingered the card, and then slipped it into her purse heavy with the weight of the dead—dead cell phone, dead credit cards, dead checkbook. She smiled at Cliff, thanked Bow Peep for the music, then hurried off. She was still posttraumatic from her encounter with Tito and for a second she thought that she saw him in her peripheral vision. Told herself that she was being silly as she tried to lose herself in the crush of the after-work foot traffic, looking around for a pay phone to try again to reach Tish. She was on Broad Street in front of the Ritz-Carlton that used to be a bank. She approached the coated Ritz-Carlton doorman, slipped under the oversized umbrella he held, and smiled her gushy smile, and when he smiled back and said, Ma’am, good evening, she went into a story of having just left her.cell phone in a friend’s car.
butler_seed_to_harvest_Mind_of_My_Mind	1977	Sympathy and tears were the last things Jan needed. The boy was dead. That was that. He had been a burden to her before she placed him with the Westleys. Now, dead, he was again a burden in spite of all her efforts to see that he was safe. If only Doro had not insisted that she have children. She had been looking forward to his return for so long. Now, instead of waiting for it, she would have to flee from it. Another town, another state, another name—and the likelihood that none of it would do any good. Doro was a specialist at finding people who ran from him. "Jan, please understand.... It wasn't our fault." Stupid woman! Lea became an outlet for Jan's frustration. Jan seized control of her, spun her around, and propelled her puppetlike out of the living room. Lea Westley's scream of terror when Jan finally released her was the last thing Jan was physically aware of for several minutes. A mental explosion rocked her. Then came the forced mind-to-mind contact that she fought savagely and uselessly. Then the splitting away of part of herself, the call to Forsyth. Jan regained consciousness on Lea Westley's sofa, with Lea herself sitting nearby, crying.
glasgow_in_this_our_life_In_This_Our_Life	1942	“She wants him to send her car on to Baltimore. Peter is in the hospital all day, and she is bored and unhappy with nothing to do.” Asa stared at his wife blankly. “Did she say that?” Lavinia glanced toward Charlotte, who nodded emphatically. “Oh, more than that. It seems that Peter is working very hard. He has a position in a hospital. They say that he has a really brilliant technique. . . .” Asa smiled. “I’ve heard that before. Didn’t Craig say his skill was a matter of touch and go?” “Yes, I remember.” Charlotte beamed. “Poor Lavinia would suffer so much less if she could see that everything has its humorous side.” “Even running away with your sister’s husband,” Lavinia said grimly. “No, I cannot find that amusing.” “Not that, but the way Stanley seems to have lost sight of the—of the tragedy. I hope,” Charlotte added, lowering her voice, “that Roy has forgotten as quickly.” “Where is she?” Asa asked. “I mean Roy.” “She went out with Craig. There was a Sunday meeting somewhere about something—but it wasn’t religious.
himes_a_rage_in_harlem_A_Rage_in_Harlem	1957	“Don’t you move!” he shouted at Jackson. “I ain’t moving, Marshal.” When the marshal finally got his feet underneath him he yanked Jackson erect and snapped a pair of handcuffs about his wrists. “Trying to make a fool out of me! You’ll get ten years for this.” Jackson turned a battleship gray. “I ain’t done nothing. Marshal. I swear to God.” Jackson had attended a Negro college in the South, but whenever he was excited or scared he began talking in his native dialect. “Sit down and shut up,” the marshal ordered. He shut off the gas and began picking up the cardboard tubes for evidence. He opened one, took out a brand-new hundred-dollar bill and held it up toward the light. “Raised from a ten. The markings are still on it.” Jackson had started to sit down but he stopped suddenly and began to plead. “It wasn’t me what done that, Marshal. I swear to God. It was them two fellows who got away. All I done was come into the kitchen to get a drink of water.” "Don’t lie to me, Jackson. I know you. I’ve got the goods on you, man.
george_a_great_deliverance_A_Great_Deliverance	1988	“He went away one day.” Bridie rested her cheek on her knee, pulled the bird to her side, and stared at the river. “He didn’t even say goodbye.” She turned and kissed the duck’s smooth head. He pecked at her cheek in return. “I would’ve said goodbye,” she whispered. “Would you use the word angel or sunshine to describe someone who drank, swore, and ran around like mad?” Lynley asked. Sergeant Havers looked up from her morning eggs, stirred sugar into her coffee, and thought about it. “I suppose it depends on your definition of rain, doesn’t it?” He smiled. “I suppose so.” He pushed his plate away from him and regarded Havers thoughtfully. She wasn’t looking half bad this morning: there was a hint of colour on her eyelids, cheeks, and lips, and her hair had a noticeable curl to it. Even her clothes had distinctly improved, for she wore a brown tweed skirt and matching pullover which, even if they weren’t exactly the best colour for her skin tone, at least were a marked improvement over yesterday’s ghastly blue suit. “Why the question?” she asked. “Stepha described Gillian as wild. A drinker.”
amaka_the_book_of_echoes_The_Book_of_Echoes	2020	He’s like force-ripened fruit: he’s grown older but not sweeter, mature but not wiser, experienced but naive of the lessons to unfold. ‘Now, you’ll be okay, won’t you? I don’t know why you insisted on moving back here,’ Auntie Eliza says, giving the small kitchen stove a final wipe down. ‘I need to start getting on with things.’ ‘Well, we weren’t stopping you.’ Michael doesn’t know how to tell her how much he needs this space. He doesn’t need the reminders, or the small talk with people he doesn’t know, or to listen to their descriptions of his mother that he doesn’t recognize. He especially doesn’t need the charade, to tell the constant lie about what really happened the day she died, the pretence that some random stranger killed his mother, and every time he utters this lie it kills a little bit of him inside. What he really needs is to be alone and there is no other place than in this flat. ‘You know Marcia will want to come back with you now you’re here.’ ‘I know, and once I’ve settled, she will.’ ‘Don’t be silly. How are you and her going to manage?
west_shoes_of_the_fisherman_The_Shoes_of_the_Fisherman	1963	* She fixed him with a shrewd and rheumy eye. ‘ Take young Campeggio first. You know what I should do?* ‘I’d like to hear it.’ ‘Promote him. Push him forward as fast as you can. Promise him something even bigger after the election. Bind him to you with trust and friendship. His father will hate you, but the boy will love you, and I don’t think Campeggio will fight his own son ... As for Chiara and her American boy friend, leave them to me.’ ‘What do you propose to do?’ The old princess gave her high birdlike chuckle and shook her head. ‘You have no talent with women, Corrado. Just sit quietly and leave Chiara to me.’ Calitri spread his eloquent hands in a gesture of resignation. ‘Just as you say. Aunt. I’ll leave her to you.’ ‘You won’t regret it.’ * I’ll take your advice. Aunt.’ ‘I know you will. Give me a kiss now, and cheer up. You’ll have dinner with me tomorrow night. There are some people from the Vatican I want you to meet Now that you’re back in the bosom of the Church, they can begin to be useful to you.’
makkai_the_great_believers_The_Great_Believers	2019	She said, “You know he likes you too.” He said, “Who?” even though he knew, or hoped he knew. He’d felt cold and drained, but now all his blood and breath rushed back into him. “He told Nico. And Nico told me.” “Oh. So it was ages ago.” “Sure. But people don’t let go of that stuff. And I talked to him after you broke up with Charlie. I said he should go for it.” She kept talking too loud. She wasn’t following his cues to whisper—although the lobby was mostly empty, and the family at the desk seemed preoccupied. “And he didn’t go for it.” “The thing is, he’s not into monogamy, and he knew that was what you’d want.” “Jesus. I mean, I don’t believe in it anymore. It’s the entire reason I’m sick.” Fiona tilted her head. “That’s kind of the opposite of what happened.” “Not really.” He was angry and excited and confused. None of which helped his stomach. He wanted more than ever to head back out there, and he knew less than ever how he would hold it together.
stockett_the_help_The_Help	2010	“I reckon not. Fact, a white lady might do worse.” “Where are you going?” Mother calls from the relaxing room. I have my satchel and the truck keys. I keep heading for the door. “To the movies,” I call. “You went to the movies last night. Come here, Eugenia.” I backtrack, stand in the doorway. Mother’s ulcers have been acting up. At supper she’s been eating nothing but chicken broth, and I feel bad for her. Daddy went to bed an hour ago, but I can’t stay here with her. “I’m sorry, Mother, I’m late. Do you want me to bring you anything?” “What movie and with whom? You’ve been out almost every night this week.” “Just... some girls. I’ll be home by ten. Are you alright?” “I’m fine,” she sighs. “Go on, then.” I head to the truck, feeling guilty because I’m leaving Mother alone when she’s not feeling well. Thank God Stuart’s in Texas because I doubt I could lie to him so easily. When he came over three nights ago, we sat out on the porch swing listening to the crickets.
jones_the_known_world_The_Known_World	2003	“I slept like they was payin me to, slept anough for three white women without a care in the world.” “Well,” the first man said, “sounds like you gotta hold a some of my sleep. Better give it back. Better give it back fore you wear out my sleep usin it. Give it back.” “Oh, I will,” the neighbor said, laughing, inspecting loose threads on his overalls. “I sure will. Soon as I’m finished. Meantime, I’m gonna use it again tonight. Come for it in the mornin.” They both laughed. It was often the case that Alice, the Night Walker, would be standing just inside her door when Moses opened it each morning, dressed and ready to work, as if she had been standing at the door waiting for him all night. She was waiting now and she was smiling, the same smile she had for everything—from the death of a neighbor’s baby to the four oranges Henry and Caldonia gave each slave on Christmas morning. “Baby dead baby dead baby dead,” she would chant. “Christmas oranges Christmas oranges Christmas oranges in the mornin. ” “I don’t want no foolishness from you, woman,” Moses said now.
goodson_sweet_salt_Sweet_Salt	1976	Lonnie made the move himself, finding a spot near the center of the broad tarpaulin. He sat down, Jesus Christ, all that sugar, tons of it, within a few feet of him. He was sure he could smell it, a heavy pungent molasses odor rising around him like a halo, reminding him of something he couldn’t quite remember, try as he might, something nice from a long time ago. He couldn’t think of anything but the sugar. Even when the afternoon meal came, finally about dark, he kept seeing it down there, hundreds of fat sacks of brown crystals that melted in the mouth and ran syrupy over the tongue. He ate the rice and soybean paste, there was no soup, and gulped down his tea, but he didn’t taste any of it. The memory of the sugar was there, jamming out all sensations, all other thoughts. He wasn’t even lonely for Ross. As darkness came and it grew colder in the hold Lonnie left the center of the tarpaulin but he couldn’t bring himself to move back toward the bulkhead where it was warmer. He crawled to the edge of the tarpaulin and felt along, foot after foot, until he completely circumnavigated the large square and was back where he had started. No break anywhere.
moyes_the_giver_of_stars_The_Giver_of_Stars	2020	We’ll be good.” Margery didn’t speak. Some days she was like this now. Would barely say a word the whole time he was there. Those days had grown fewer since Virginia arrived—it was as if she couldn’t help but talk to the child, even if she was feeling down, but Sven still hated to see them. He rubbed at his head. “Alice said to tell you the chickens are doing fine. Winnie laid a double-yolker. Charley’s getting fat. Quite enjoying the rest, far as I can see it. We’ve got him turned out this week with Fred’s young ones and he’s showing them who’s boss.” She looked down at Virginia, checking that she had finished, then adjusted her dress and placed the baby against her shoulder for burping. “You know, I was thinking . . Sven continued. “Maybe when you come home we could get another dog. There’s a farmer over at Shelbyville got a hunting bitch I’ve fancied for a long time that he wants to put to pup. She’s got a sweet nature. It’s good for a child to grow up around a dog. If we get a puppy, he and Virginia could grow up together. What do you say?”
reed_flight_to_canada_Flight_to_Canada	1976	You know how she talks. But then again, it’s really immoral down here. Andrew Johnson called it that. An immoral land. The devil’s country home. That’s what the South is. It’s where the devil goes to rest after he’s been about the world wearying the hunted and the haunted. This is the land of the hunted and haunted. This is where he comes. The devil sits on the porch of his plantation. He’s dressed up like a gentleman and sitting on a white porch between some white columns. All the tormented are out in fields, picking cotton and tobacco and looking after his swine, who have human heads and scales on their pig legs and make pitiful cries as they are whipped. And the devil just grins, sitting there on his devil’s porch. Rocking. Rocking like the devil rocks. And that old wicked Quantrell, his overseer, with his blazing Simon Legree blue eyes, is whipping a malnutri-tioned woman for the devil’s entertainment. And the devil laughs his ungodly laugh. And the woman is Lawrence Kansas. And there’s blood coming from Lawrence Kansas’ mouth. This is the devil’s vacation spot where he personally takes care of all the reservations and arranges for the tour buses to reach various parts of Virginia Hell.
pynchon_gravitys_rainbow_Gravity_s_Rainbow	1974	It takes him five minutes to thread his way to her, by which time he’s picked up a brandy Alexander, a party hat, a sign taped to his back urging whoever reads it, in Low Pomeranian, to kick Slothrop, lipstick smudges in three shades of magenta, and a black Italian maduro someone has thoughtfully already lit. “You may look like the soul of conviviality,” Stefania greets him, “but it doesn’t fool me. Under that cheerful mask is the face of a Jonah.” “You mean, uh, the, uh—” “I mean Margherita. She’s locked herself in the head. Hysterical. Nobody can bring her out.” “So you’re looking at me. How about Thanatz?” “Thanatz has disappeared, and so has Bianca.” “Oh, shit.” “Margherita thinks you’ve done away with her.” “Not me.” He gives her a quick rundown of Ensign Morituri’s tale. Some of her elan, her resilience, go away. She bites a fingernail. “Yes, there were rumors. Sigmund, before he vanished, leaked just enough to titillate people, but never got specific. That was his style. Listen, Slothrop. Do you think Bianca’s in any danger?”
castillo_so_far_from_god_So_Far_From_God	1993	And Domingo, knowing himself all too well, agreed, so he signed his share over to Loca. And that was that. But Loca was not destined to live in that little one-room round adobe, neither. After each daughter’s death, Sofi noticed that Loca was a little more off-center than usual. Loca spent more and more time down by the acequia, ignoring the animals, hardly playing her fiddle, losing interest in life, it seemed, and when her father was gone, she adapted his mindless habit of indiscriminate T.V. watching. And though no one would have ever thought of the television as any kind of psychic vehicle, one Sunday evening while Loca was staring at one of those “news magazine” shows, Sofi got a premonition from it, and with a deep sigh, resigned herself to the fact that she was going to die alone. “Look, Mom, come ’ere,” Loca had called on that occasion to Sofi, who was doing her income taxes at the dining room table when Loca saw something that had caught her attention. The report was about a woman named Vicka from a place called Medjugorje who had experienced a vision of the Virgin Mary years ago when she was a teenager. “Listen! Listen!” Loca interrupted when Sofi started to ask something.
walker_jubilee_Jubilee	1966	“I dare not tell you all my heart would have you know.” She nodded, fighting back the easy tears, and whispering over and over, “I know. I know,” even after she had run outside the house. Missy Salina believed firmly to the end that he would have been all right, that he was getting better, that he would have gotten well if the dismaying news from the battlefront had not come just then. The Yankees were fighting at Chattanooga and breaking Bragg’s siege. One day’s battle was over when they heard the news and all the words were disastrous. In the night she heard Johnny coughing, and she got up and ran into his room. There, when she had made a light, she saw the blood streaming from his lips in great gulps every time the tearing cough would wrack his frame. She screamed for help and sent for Doc. But all night long he bled. And there was nothing they could do. Early in the morning when Fanny came the house servants had cleaned the bloody bed and Johnny lay flat and wasted and gasping for each breath. She took one look and saw all the pity and the pain and the hopeless love in his dying eyes and she fell across the bed sobbing all her bitter frustration and dying hope.
mosley_devil_in_a_blue_dress_Devil_in_a_Blue_Dress	1990	They were just throwing money at me that day. “How’s that?” I asked the drunk. “I need to get in here . . . lookin’ fer someone. Girl in there won’t let me in.” He was teetering and I was afraid he’d fall down. “Why’ont you tell’em I’m fine.” “I’m sorry, but I can’t do that,” I said. “Why’s that?” “Once they tell you no at John’s they stick to it.” I moved around him to get into the door again. He tried to turn and grab my arm but all he managed was to spin around twice and wind up sitting against the wall. He put up Ids hand as if he wanted me to bend down so he could whisper something but I didn’t think that anything he had to offer could improve my life. “Hey, Hattie,” I said. “Looks like you got a boarder out on your doorstep.” “Drunk ole white boy?” “Yep.” “I’ll have Junior look out there later on. He can sweep’im up if he still there.” With that I put the drunk out of my mind. “Who you got playin’ tonight?” I asked.
agee_a_death_in_the_family_A_Death_in_the_Family	1958	“Now let’s git along, ” she said, creaking upright and smoothing her starched garments. “We don’t want to keep your gran-maw waitin.” And there was the dusty ivy on the wall, the small glass-house in front, and on the porch, Aunt Amelia and his grandma. Even when they were still across the street he saw his Aunt Amelia wave and Victoria waved gaily back, chuckling and croaking, “Hello,” and he waved too; and Amelia leaned towards his grandmother who sought out and tilted her little trumpet and Amelia leaned close to it and then they both turned to look anc^ Grandma got up and he could hear her high, “Hello,” and they were at the front steps, and Grandma came cautiously down the steps from the porch, and they all met on the brick walk tn shade of the magnolia, while Aunt Amelia came up smiling from behind her mother. And soon Victoria left; she disappeared around a corner, a few blocks up the street, handsomely and gradually as a sailboat. ioo ^ PART T W O ^ Chapter 8 A few minutes before ten, the phone rang. Mary hurried to quiet it. “Hello?” The voice was a man’s, wiry and faint, a country voice.
whitehead_the_nickel_boys_The_Nickel_Boys	2020	“The director?” Elwood asked when Turner told him that last part. “Where do you think Dr. Campbell got that trick from?” Turner said. Nickel was gone, but Dr. Campbell, the school psychologist, was known to loiter at the white boys’ showers to pick his dates. “All these dirty old men got a club together.” Elwood and Turner were hanging out on the gymnasium bleachers this afternoon. Griff sparred with Cherry, a mulatto who took up boxing as a matter of pedagogy, to teach others how not to speak about his white mother. He was quick and lithe and Griff clobbered him. Catching Griff at his regimen was Cleveland’s favorite occupation those early days in December. Boys from the colored dormitories made the rounds, as well as white scouts from down the hill who wanted the skinny. Griff had been excused from his kitchen shift since Labor Day to train. It was a spectacle. Max kept him on an obscure diet of raw eggs and oats, and stored a jug of what he claimed was goat blood in the icebox. When the coach administered the doses, Griff swallowed the stuff with a lot of theater and mortified the heavy bag in revenge. Turner had seen Axel fight during his first term at Nickel, two years prior.
butler_dawn_Dawn	1987	You wanted your time back—the time we’ve taken from you. You didn’t want to die.” She stared at him, shocked that he had read her so clearly. And he must have known of humans who did want to die even after hearing promises of long life, health, and lasting youth. Why? Maybe they’d heard the part she hadn’t been told about yet: the reason for all this. The price. “So far,” she said, “only boredom and isolation have driven me to want to die.” “Those are past. And you’ve never tried to kill yourself, even then.” “... no.” “Your desire to live is stronger than you realize.” She sighed. “You’re going to test that, aren’t you? That’s why you haven’t told me yet what your people want of us.” “Yes,” he admitted, alarming her. “Tfell me!” Silence. “If you knew anything at all about the human imagination, you’d know you were doing exactly the wrong thing,” she said. “Once you’re able to leave this room with me, I’ll answer your questions,” he told her. She stared at him for several seconds.
thompson_the_killer_inside_me_The_Killer_Inside_Me	1952	Schizophrenia, paranoid type. Acute, recurrent, advanced. Incurable. It was written, you might say, about— But I reckon you know, don’t you? I was in jail eight days, but no one questioned me and they didn’t pull any more stunts like that voice recording. I kind of looked for them to do the last because they couldn’t be positive about that piece of evidence they had — about my reaction to it, that is. They weren’t certain that it would make me put the finger on myself. And even if they had been certain, I knew they’d a lot rather I cracked up and confessed of my own accord. If I did that they could probably send me to the chair. The other way—if they used their evidence—they couldn’t. But I reckon they weren’t set up right at the jail for any more stunts or maybe they couldn’t get ahold of the equipment they needed. At any rate, they didn’t pull any more. And on the eighth day, around eleven o’clock at night, they transferred me to the insane asylum. They put me in a pretty good room—better’n any I’d seen the time I’d had to take a poor guy there years before—and left me alone.
dangarembga_nervous_conditions_Nervous_Conditions	1988	At the door a nun, smiling beatifically, made us welcome by shaking our hands and asking us ‘Which one is this?’ before taking us up steps and down corridors to a room at the end of a long hallway. ‘All the first-formers live on this corridor,’ she explained as she led the way. ‘And the Africans live in here,’ she announced, triumphantly flinging the door to my new life wide open. The room was empty. I was, it seemed, the first black first-former to have arrived. It was not a small room but then neither was it large. It certainly was not large enough for the six beds that stood in it, three along one wall and three along the other, all of necessity so closely arranged that there was barely space to walk between them. ‘This is your room,’ the nun said, smiling first at Nyasha and then at me, and then confessing her confusion. ‘Mr See-ga-ookey,’ she smiled, ‘you have only one coming. Which one is it?’ She had forgotten already although we had been introduced at the door. I wished I had been wearing uniform like the other girls I had seen. Then she would have known who I was.
brown_clotel_or_the_presidents_daughter_gutenberg_pg2046_Clotel:_or,_the_President’s_Daughter	1853	The girls themselves had never heard that their mother had been a slave, and therefore knew nothing of the danger hanging over their heads. An inventory of the property was made out by James Morton, and placed in the hands of the creditors; and the young ladies, with their uncle, were about leaving the city to reside for a few days on the banks of Lake Pontchartrain, where they could enjoy a fresh air that the city could not afford. But just as they were about taking the train, an officer arrested the whole party; the young ladies as slaves, and the uncle upon the charge of attempting to conceal the property of his deceased brother. Morton was overwhelmed with horror at the idea of his nieces being claimed as slaves, and asked for time, that he might save them from such a fate. He even offered to mortgage his little farm in Vermont for the amount which young slave women of their ages would fetch. But the creditors pleaded that they were "an extra article," and would sell for more than common slaves; and must, therefore, be sold at auction. They were given up, but neither ate nor slept, nor separated from each other, till they were taken into the New Orleans slave market, where they were offered to the highest bidder.
lahiri_interpreter_of_maladies_Interpreter_of_Maladies	2000	He put down two embroidered place mats, a wedding gift from an uncle in Lucknow, and set out the plates and wineglasses they usually saved for guests. He put the ivy in the middle, the white-edged, star-shaped leaves girded by ten little candles. He switched on the digital clock radio and tuned it to a jazz station. “What's all this?” Shoba said when she came downstairs. Her hair was wrapped in a thick white towel. She undid the towel and draped it over a chair, allowing her hair, damp and dark, to fall across her back. As she walked absently toward the stove she took out a few tangles with her fingers. She wore a clean pair of sweatpants, a T-shirt, an old flannel robe. Her stomach was flat again, her waist narrow before the flare of her hips, the belt of the robe tied in a floppy knot. It was nearly eight. Shukumar put the rice on the table and the lentils from the night before into the microwave oven, punching the numbers on the timer. "You made roganjosh,” Shoba observed, looking through the glass lid at the bright paprika stew. Shukumar took out a piece of lamb, pinching it quickly between his fingers so as not to scald himself.
morrison_beloved_Beloved	1988	She needn’t have worried. Wrapped tight, hunched forward, as she started home her mind was busy with the things she could forget. Thank God I don’t have to rememory or say a thing because you know it. All. You know I never would a left you. Never. It was all I could think of to do. When the train came I had to be ready. Schoolteacher was teaching us things we couldn’t learn. I didn’t care nothing about the measuring string. We all laughed about that—except Sixo. He didn’t laugh at nothing. But I didn’t care. Schoolteacher’d wrap that string all over my head, ’cross my nose, around my behind. Number my teeth. I thought he was a fool. And the questions he asked was the biggest foolishness of all. Then me and your brothers come up from the second patch. The first one was close to the house where the quick things grew: beans, onions, sweet peas. The other one was further down for long-lasting things, potatoes, pumpkin, okra, pork salad. Not much was up yet down there. It was early still. Some young salad maybe, but that was all. We pulled weeds and hoed a little to give everything a good start.
sahgal_rich_like_us_Rich_Like_Us	1985	A long drive took him, not to the neighbourhood thana, but much further away. When he got down he was in Daryaganj, a stone's throw from the upper floor nursing home where four of his children had been born. That place is in your horoscope, his mother had told him, every time you turn around you're in Daryaganj again. And here he was again, this time without a nine-months-pregnant wife, and Madam's police force was finding it hard to call five an illegal crowd and disband it in a street where crowds were a permanent fixture and cows and calves staggered against cycle rickshaws. The policemen inside the thana were drinking tea. Yes, Madam knew her police force and it really had very little to do, bringing odds and ends like him in. That and the obvious good humour of the tea-drinkers to whom he was delivered before the others went away to enjoy their leisure again should have struck him as a favourable sign, but it didn't. You are so-and-so, declared the head tea drinker. After all these years K.L. hadn't got ranks in the army, navy, air force and police force sorted out, since uniformed authority had not impinged much if at all on his life. He said he was.
baldwin_if_beale_street_could_talk_If_Beale_Street_Could_Talk	1974	The church had been a post office. I don’t know how come the building had had to be sold, or why, come to that, anybody had wanted to buy it, because it still looked like a post office, long and dark and low. They had knocked down some walls and put in some benches and put up the church signs and the church schedules; but the ceiling was that awful kind of wrinkled tin, and they had either painted it brown or they had left it unpainted. When you came in, the pulpit looked a mighty long ways off. To tell the truth, I think the people in the church were just proud that their church was so big and that they had somehow got their hands on it. Of course I was (more or less) used to Abyssinia. It was brighter, and had a balcony. I used to sit in that balcony, on Mama’s knees. Every time I think of a certain song, “Uncloudy Day,” I’m back in that balcony again, on Mama’s knees. Every time I hear “Blessed Quietness,” I think of Fonny’s church and Fonny’s mother. I don’t mean that either the song or the church was quiet. But I don’t remember ever hearing that song in our church.
craven_i_heard_the_owl_call_my_name_I_Heard_the_Owl_Call_My_Name	1974	"Easily.” On one of the last lovely days of September Mark packed a lunch and he and Jim went upriver in one of the smaller outboard canoes to seek the end of the swimmer. Above the village where the river curved left into rapids, they stopped at a pool at the foot of Che-kwa-14, the falls, on a stream that fell into the river. Hare it was cool and misty, the spruce and the hemlock hanging with moss, one huge cottonwood standing guard. They stood for a long time watching the troubled restless water of the falls coming to rest in the deep quiet pool, and neither spoke. Then they went on up the rapids of the river, and a bear, fishing for the swimmer, saw them come and scrambled into the trees, and the two deer that had come to the river to drink saw diem also, and were gone in one lovely fluid leap. Well up the river they passed cedar shake cabins, smoke coming from the holes in their roofs, and Mark could see some of the children of the tribe playing under the trees. ‘They have come to smoke fish,” Jim told him. “Each fall, families come to do this. It is a time everyone likes. The children run wild and the women talk.
delaney_dhalgren_Dhalgren	1974	Kid picked up another bottle (he chose it because it had the cap on, but saw, when it was in his hand that it was only half full: Well, it was a gesture) and, to the Captain’s frown, flipped on his shield. “Tell Mr Calkins thanks. Good night.” Kamp squinted and pulled back, his face washed with light the same pale blue as his shirt. His eyes, widening, rose. When Kid left the terrace steps and was halfway across the lawn, “You,” Lanya told him, “are a perfect child!” “Fuck you. You want to go put it back?” “No. Come on.” “Hey,” Angel was saying to the young Filipino gatekeeper, “you want a fuckin’ drink? How come they didn’t let you up to the party?” “Thank you, no. That’s all right—” “You got just as much right to a party as we got! You wanna drink?” “Thank you, no. Good night.” “God-damn motherfuckers! Keep a God-damn gook down here workin’ his ass off all night while everybody else is up having a good time—” “Come on,” Kid said.
barker_weaveworld_Weaveworld	1987	If what you possessed was desired ardently enough by another person, then you as good as possessed that person too. Even princes could be owned. Here they were now, or their modem equivalent, all assembled at his call: the old money and the new, the aristocracy and the arrivistes, watching each other warily, and eager as children for a glimpse of the treasure they were here to fight over. Paul van Niekerk, reputed to own the finest collection of erotica in the world, outside the walls of the Vatican; Marguerite Pierce, who had with the death of her parents inherited at the tender age of nineteen one of the largest personal fortunes in Europe; Beauclerc Norris, the Hamburger King, whose company owned small states; the oil billionaire Alexander A., who was within hours of death in a Washington hospital but had sent his companion of many years, a woman who answered only to Mrs. A.; Michael Rahimzadeh, the origins of whose fortune were impossible to trace, its previous owners all recently, and suddenly, deceased; Leon Devereaux, who’d come hot-foot from Johannesburg, his pockets lined with gold dust; and finally, an unnamed individual whose features had been toyed with by a succession of surgeons, who could not take from his eyes the look of a man with an unspeakable history.
ellison_invisible_man_Invisible_Man	1952	I said. “You will be, in time, by the committee— Sacrifice is necessary now—” “But shouldn’t sacrifice be made willingly by those who know what they are doing? My people don’t understand why they’re being sacrificed. They don’t even know they’re being sacrificed—at least not by us . . .” But what, my mind went on, if they’re as willing to be duped by the Brotherhood as by Rinehart? I sat up at the thought and there must have been an odd expression on my face, for Hambro, who was resting his elbows upon the arms of his chair and touching his fingertips together, raised his eyebrows as though expecting me to continue. Then he said, “The disciplined members will understand.” I pulled Tarp’s leg chain from my pocket and slipped it over my knuckles. He didn’t notice. “Don’t you realize that we have only a handful of disciplined members left? Today the funeral brought out hundreds who’ll drop away as soon as they see we’re not following through. And now we’re being attacked on the streets. Can’t you understand? Other groups are circulating petitions, Ras is calling for violence. The committee is mistaken if they think this is going to die down.”
baldacci_absolute_power_Absolute_Power	1995	His eye scanned the room. It took him a few seconds, but then he had it. He quickly knelt down beside the table and peered under one of the legs. The table was a Sheraton, Eighteenth Century, which meant it was as heavy as a semi. It took him two tries, and perspiration broke across his forehead, a trickle entering his right eye and making him tear for a moment, but he finally managed to budge the table and pull it out. He sat back down and looked at his new possession, maybe his little pot of gold. The little piece of silver-colored material acted as a barrier between the furniture to prevent the wet carpet from causing damage to wood or upholstery and also stopped leaching into the damp fibers. With the aid of sunlight, its reflective surface also made for a nice rainbow. He had had similar ones in his own house when his wife had gotten particularly nervous about a visit from her in-laws and decided some serious household cleaning had to be done. He took out his notebook. The servants arrived at Dulles at ten tomorrow morning. Frank doubted in this house if the small piece of foil he was holding would have been allowed to remain in its resting place for very long. It could be nothing. It could be everything.
frisbie_miss_ulysses_from_puka_puka_Miss_Ulysses_from_Pukapuka	1948	That pleased her, because his clothes fitted her so snugly they showed off her shape. Well, anyway, she was a great help, for we had foul weather the whole voyage and, not being seasick, she tried to make up for her naughtiness by taking good care of four very sick cowboys. The only trouble was, as Papa told us, that Rarotonga would gobble Calypso up and destroy her as completely as the soldiers had destroyed the Penrhyn girls. “Land ho!” A new port in a new island! The dizzy peaks of Rarotonga rose fresh and green from the sea; the palms waved their fronds in welcome; little Elaine and Nga, atoll babies, stared at their first mountainous island, their eyes popping with wonder! 38 BROTHER CHARLIE I shall skip lightly past our one year and seven months in Rarotonga, and you can take my word for it that you are missing nothing. It was the dullest period in my life, brightened only when old Piki-Piki let Brother Charlie visit us for a few days. During the first five of those nineteen months we watched Calypso change from an innocent child of the atolls to a blowzy street-walker, but at last we were rich enough to buy some pretty things for her and send her weeping back to Manihiki.
roth_american_pastoral_American_Pastoral	1998	“. . . and they gave us wine that they made, little things to eat, and so friendly,” Dawn said. “When we went back the second time it was fall. The cows live up in the mountains all summer and they milk them and the cow that made the most milk all summer would be the first one to come down with a great bell on her neck. That was the number-one cow. They put flowers on her horns and had great celebrations. When they come down from the high mountain pastures they come down in a line, the leading cow the first one.” What if she went on to kill somebody else? Isn’t that a bit of a responsibility? She did, you know. She killed three more people. What do you think of that? Don’t say these things just to torture me. I’m telling you something! She killed three more people! You could have prevented that! You’re torturing me. You’re trying to torture me. She killed three more people! “And all the people, all the children, the girls and the women who had been milking all summer would come in beautiful clothes, all dressed in Swiss outfits, and a band, music, a big fiesta down in the square.
wouk_the_caine_mutiny_The_Caine_Mutiny	1952	Challee, in a belligerent re-examination, crowded the engineering officer hard. “Mr. Paynter, did Captain Queeg direct you to find Stilwell guilty?” “He didn’t order me to, no. The way he explained the law, though, he left no doubt what verdict he wanted.” “What verdict did you think he wanted?” “Guilty, and a bad-conduct discharge.” “What verdict did the court hand down?” “Guilty and deprived of six liberties.” “Did Captain Queeg attempt to have you change the sentence?” “No.” “Did he give letters of admonition to the court?” “No.” “Did he punish you in any way?” “Well, yes. He said there would be no sleeping after 0800 in the wardroom. And he started keeping a black book on errors we made in writing logs.” “In other words, this cruel punishment consisted of orders to write accurate logs and not to sleep during ship’s working hours, is that correct?” “Well, at the time we were standing a one-in-three watch, and not to be able to sleep in---” “Answer the question, please. Was that the extent of your so-called punishment?”
higgins_three_complete_novels_The_Eagle_Has_Landed	1975	It needs to be something simpler, more direct. An E-boat, perhaps. There’s plenty of E-boat activity in that area in the coastal shipping lanes. I don’t see any reason why one couldn’t slip in between the beach and the Point. It would be on a rising tide and according to the report, there are no mines in that channel, which would simplify things considerably.” “One would need Navy advice on that,” Hofer said cautiously. “Mrs. Grey does say in her report that those are dangerous waters.” “Which is exactly what good sailors are for. Is there anything else you’re not happy with?” “Forgive me, Herr Oberst, but it would seem to me that there is a time factor involved which could be quite crucial to the success of the entire operation and frankly, I don’t see how it could be reconciled.” Hofer pointed to Studley Grange on the ordnance survey map. “Here is the target, approximately eight miles from the dropping zone. Considering the unfamiliar territory and the darkness. I would say it would take the raiding party two hours to reach it and however brief the visit, it would still take as long for the return journey. My estimate would be an action span of six hours.
lecarre_the_spy_who_came_in_from_the_cold_The_Spy_Who_Came_In_from_the_Cold	1963	There they stopped. Beneath them, half screened by the ghostly patchwork of tall pine trees, lay the meeting point of two great valleys. The steep wooded hills on either side gradually yielded their colours to the gathering dusk until they stood grey and lifeless in the twilight. “Whatever happens,” Fiedler said, “don’t worry. It will be all right, do you understand?” His voice was heavy with emphasis, his slim hand rested on Leamas’ arm. “You may have to look after yourself a little, but it won’t last long, do you understand?” he asked again. “No. And since you won’t tell me I shall have to wait and see. Don’t worry too much for my skin, Fiedler.” He moved his arm, but Fiedler’s hand still held him. Leamas hated being touched. “Do you know Mundt?” asked Fiedler, “do you know about him?” “We’ve talked about Mundt.” “Yes,” Fiedler repeated, “we’ve talked about him. He shoots first and asks questions afterwards. The deterrent principle. It’s an odd system in a profession where the questions are always supposed to be more important than the shooting.” Leamas knew what Fiedler wanted to tell him.
diaz_the_brief_wondrous_life_of_oscar_wao_The_Brief_Wondrous_Life_of_Oscar_Wao	2008	It wasn’t aliens or the KGB or a lone gunman. It wasn’t the Hunt Brothers of Texas or Lee Harvey or the Trilateral Commission. It was Trujillo; it was the fuku. Where in conazo do you think the so-called Curse of the Kennedys comes from?2 How about Vietnam? Why do you think the greatest power in the world lost its first war to a Third World country like Vietnam? I mean, Negro, please. It might interest you that just as the U.S. was ramping up its involvement in Vietnam, LBJ launched an illegal invasion of the Dominican Republic (April 28, 1965). (Santo Domingo was Iraq before Iraq was Iraq.) A smashing military success for the U.S., and many of the same units and intelligence teams that took part in the “democratization” of Santo Domingo were immediately shipped off to Saigon. What do you think these soldiers, technicians, and spooks carried with them, in their rucks, in their suitcases, in their shirt pockets, on the hair inside their nostrils, caked up around their shoes? Just a little gift from my people to America, a small repayment for an unjust war. That’s right, folks. Fuku. Which is why it’s important to remember fuku doesn’t always strike like lightning.
stewart_the_crystal_cave_The_Crystal_Cave	1970	No one I had ever seen. I gave a gasp of relief. “You’re not the King’s men! Who are you, then? What do you want here?” The weaselly man stopped rooting in my bag, and stared. “That’s no concern of yours,” said the big man who held me. “We’ll ask the questions. Why should you be so scared of the King's men? You know them all, eh?” “Of course I do. I live in the palace. I’m—a slave there.” “Marric”—it was the Weasel, sharply—“look over there, there’s a fire started. They’re buzzing like a wasp’s nest. No point in wasting time here over a runaway slave-brat. Slit his throat and let’s run for it while we can.” “A moment,” said the big man. "He may know something. Look now, you— “If you’re going to slit my throat anyway,” I said, “why should I tell you anything? Who are you?" He ducked his head forward suddenly, peering at me. “Crowing mighty fine all of a sudden, aren’t you? Never mind who we are. A slave, eh? Running away?”
diaz_in_the_distance_In_the_Distance	2018	Vast, frantic, intricate, terraced, roaring, twisting, the quarry was an insane city for an unknown species. Through this maze ran roads on which debris-filled carts tottered behind miserable beasts. Those pump cars on wooden bars rolled in and out of tunnels with rocks, tools, and men. The sound of metal on stone, like hard raindrops, filled the air. Clouds of smoke blossomed here and there, followed by the roll of an explosion. Under the malignant sun, dusty men walked back and forth along narrow ledges, climbed up and down ladders, and crawled in and out of caves, carrying gear and boulders. Some of them gestured and screamed out their instructions, but no voice was heard beneath the tumult. Armed guards everywhere. At almost all times, there was a minor avalanche somewhere that sent handfuls of little miners running in every direction. This inhuman place, with its filthy pits, abrupt walls, and tiered plateaus descending into the broken earth like a gigantic staircase, extended beyond the reach of the eye. Wherever Brennan’s hoard was, it had been swept away like dust. Nothing left behind in the wilderness could ever be retrieved. Every encounter was final. Nobody came back from beyond the horizon. It was impossible to return to anything or anyone.
siddons_the_house_next_door_The_House_Next_Door	1978	Ob' viously, he didn’t let me know what had happened be-cause I wasn’t home when it—when she got sick again, and I guess he didn’t have time later. Or didn’t think of it if he was drinking again.” “Virginia must not have been home when it hap-pened either, or Charles would have known something about it,” said Claire, frowning. “He only said he understood Anita was back in the hospital and Buck was staying with her. He didn’t even know they’d gone back to New Jersey. He said neither he nor Virginia knew any more about it than that, and if I’d excuse him, they had a lot of packing and arrangements to tend to. That’s when he told me about the cruise. He sounded so funny that I didn’t want to pursue it. So that’s when I called her cousin. I’m surprised you didn’t think to do that.” “I ... don’t know why I didn’t. I was just so sorry to hear she’d been taken back to the hospital, and I guess I thought they’d call when they needed us.” “Well, how did you know about it? I mean, if nobody saw them go ..
carey_oscar_and_lucinda_Oscar_and_Lucinda	1988	But where he might have expected to find a stem and life-denying spirit, he found such a trembling and tender appreciation of hedgerow, moss, robin, and the tiniest of sea creatures that even Wardley-Fish (it was he who thought the "even") was impressed and moved. Leaning against the counter at Martindale's with all the heavy physical awkwardness of a fellow waiting for his wife at the milliner's, he read this passage: "the pretty green Ploycera ocellata was numerous; but the most abundant, and at the same time most lovely species was the exquisite Eolis coronata, with tentacles surrounded by membranous coronets, and with crowded clusters of papillae, of crimson and blue that reflect the most gemlike radiance." Now Wardley-Fish thought himself a man's man, steeped in brandy and good cigars, and if-expediently-he had renounced the racecourse, he had no intention of abandoning the hunt, which he still rode to at Amersham whenever it was possible. Further, he imagined himself stupid. He had been told so long enough, and had this not been his father's opinion also, he would never have been pushed into a life as a clergyman. His early wish had been to study law, but he was told he had not the brain for it.
hammett_the_maltese_falcon_The_Maltese_Falcon	1929	You know I’m not all bad, don’t you? You can see that, can’t you? Then can’t you trust me a little? Oh, I’m so alone and afraid, and I’ve got nobody to help me if you won’t help me. I know I’ve no right to ask you to trust me if I won’t trust you. I do trust you, but I can’t tell you. I can’t tell you now. Later I will, when I can. I’m afraid, Mr. Spade. I’m afraid of trusting you. I don’t mean that. I do trust you, but—I trusted Floyd and—I’ve nobody else, nobody else, Mr. Spade. You can help me. You’ve said you can help me. If I hadn’t believed you could save me I would have run away today instead of sending for you. If I thought anybody else could save me would I be down on my knees like this? I know this isn’t fair of me. But be generous, Mr. Spade, don’t ask me to be fair. You’re strong, you’re resourceful, you’re brave. You can spare me some of that strength and resourcefulness and courage, surely. Help me, Mr. Spade.
whitehead_intuitionist_The_Intuitionist	1999	Chuckling now. “You Intuitionists really are crazy. Maybe instead of ‘separating the elevator from elevatomess’ you should separate paranoia from fact.” She sits back and makes a fist in her lap, under the table, where the smug old cracker can’t see it. Why is he feeding her this line? The elaborate abduction scene, the trip through the industrial graveyard, making her sit in the dungeon to accelerate her fear. “You certainly made the most of the accident in your press conference,” she says. Watch his eyes through all this palaver. “There’s an election on, isn’t there? I’m supposed to make the most of it.” Chancre drops his politician game and looks deep into Lila Mae’s eyes, switching tactics as if he knows what Lila Mae is thinking. “Look, Lila Mae Watson: those friends of yours have got you into a heap of trouble. Two weeks from now, where will you be? In my Department, that’s where. The boys give you grief, I know that. But you’ve been spared. You should have seen what they did to Pompey to break him in. Now he’s my boy. I’m not like the rest of the fellas, though. I’m all for your people.
winsor_forever_amber_Forever_Amber	1944	she cried angrily. “My portion won’t last long at this rate!” “I beg your pardon, madame, but I believe that I am as well aware as you of the evanescent quality of money, and I have no more wish to dissipate your inheritance than you have to see me do so. This eighteen thousand pound is to pay my debts which, as I told you, have been accumulating for twenty-five years.” He spoke with the air of one who makes a reasonable explanation of a difficult problem to a child who is not very clever, and Amber gave him a furious glare. For a moment longer she hesitated, her mind stabbing here and there for a way out. But at last she snatched away the pen, thrust it into the ink-well and with a few swift strokes scrawled her name across the sheet, making specks of ink fly as she did so. Then she threw down the pen, left him and walked to the window where she stood staring down into the alley below—scarcely seeing two women fish-vendors who were bellowing curses and slapping at each other with huge flounders. In a few moments she heard the door close behind him. Suddenly she whirled, grabbed up a small Chinese vase and threw it violently across the room.
millet_love_in_infant_monkeys_Love_in_Infant_Monkeys	2010	It was an innovative therapy and independently pioneered. But Carter was fairly sophisticated, and I felt instinctively it would be better to keep the self-expression abstract. “So what are you going to do with the rabbit? Now that you have it? It’s in your sights, Mr. President. What are you going to do?” For a time there was another pause, Carter seeming to gaze at me. Before long he stood. “You know, friend,” he said in his gentle voice, “all of Creation is under this blue dome of sky. Maybe someone tossed up that bunny’s burrow with a plow blade; maybe it had a litter a coyote got into. There are animals that go mad if you kill off their young. Heck, swamp rabbits live maybe two years, if they’re lucky. Reckon that poor fella’s bones are somewhere near that pond as we speak, covered up in good old Georgia dirt.” At this point he clapped me on the shoulder. I noticed his glass was still practically full: a good three fingers of the good fichezeaux. Was it going begging? Something in his bearing was lighter. I understood that he was leaving. He wouldn’t need to lean on me again. He’d gotten what he came for.
meyer_the_host_The_Host	2008	So when it came time for me to test my new face on the other souls, of course he went with me. This raid was a relief for me after long weeks of frustration. It was bad enough that my new body was weak and nearly useless in the caves; I couldn’t believe it when the others didn’t want to let me use my body for the one thing it was perfect for. Jared had specifically approved of Jamie’s choice because of this guileless, vulnerable face that no one could ever doubt, this delicate build that anyone would be motivated to protect, but even he had a hard time putting his theory into practice. I was sure raiding would be every bit as easy for me now as it had been before, but Jared, Jeb, Ian, and the others — everyone but Jamie and Mel — debated for days, trying to find a way around using me for that. It was ridiculous. I saw them eyeing Sunny, but she was still unproven, not trusted. On top of that, Sunny had absolutely no intention of setting one foot outside. The very word raid had her cowering in terror. Kyle would not go out with us; Sunny had gone hysterical the one time he’d mentioned it. In the end, practicality had won out.
momaday_house_made_of_dawn_House_Made_of_Dawn	1969	There were some others over there, a lot of them. We just forgot about that window, that’s all. It was pretty cold in here when I came in, and I took off that wet shirt and turned the radiator on. I was afraid the furnace wasn’t on, but pretty soon the pipes began knocking and there was a little heat coming out. I put my shirt over the radiator, and pretty soon you could really smell the wool. It got almost dry, and I was afraid it was going to get burned, so I put it on again. It was all warm, and it really felt good. I thought about eating something. Milly brought some groceries up here yesterday; she’s always doing that, and it comes out of her own pocket, too. We put some cheese and crackers and a couple of candy bars in that sack he had. There’s quite a bit left, I guess, some bread and some cans of chili and stuff. But I wasn’t very hungry, and I had that bottle of wine. Now that he’s gone, I don’t know if Milly’s going to come around anymore. I guess she will. It got pretty hot in here after a while, and I had to turn the heat off.
day_bared_to_you_Bared_to_You	2012	“For me, too.” Reaching over, Gideon caught my hand and lifted it to his lips. “I never imagined I could have this . . . Someone in my life who knows what you do about me. Someone who could talk about my fuck-ups over dinner because they accept me anyway... I’m grateful for you, Eva.” My heart twisted with a sweet pain in my chest. He could say such beautiful things, the perfect things. “I feel the same way about you, ace.” Deeper, maybe, because I loved him. But I didn’t say that aloud. He’d get there someday. I wasn’t going to give up until he was absolutely, irrevocably mine. With his bare feet propped on the coffee table and his computer on his lap, Gideon looked so at home and relaxed that he kept distracting me from my television shows. How did we get here? I asked myself. This extravagantly sexy man and me? “You’re staring,” he murmured, his gaze on his laptop screen. I stuck my tongue out at him. “Is that a sexual suggestion, Miss Tramell?” “How do you see me while staring at whatever you’re working on?” He looked up then and caught my gaze.
delmar_bad_girl_Bad_Girl	1928	Dot wondered where she was going. She had just a dollar. To think that her life with her father and Jim was to end this way. And Edna! Thoughts failed her on the subject of Edna. She was ready now. Ready to walk through the parlor without a word to any of them. Ready to rove the streets till morning. She couldn’t go to Eddie like this. The felt hat, still coldly damp, pressed against her temples. The coat, wet and heavy, depressed her. In the parlor she paused for a speeding second. Mr. Haley was reading again with self-conscious absorption. Jim was yanking spitefully at the curtains, and Edna, bent over a sofa pillow, was plucking interestedly at the embroidery. Dot walked slowly through the hall. Her valises were heavy. So was her heart. Suppose Eddie failed her now? Then there was only the poorly paid job and the fact that she was a “little bum.” The door closed upon her with a sad, muffled little sound. The trio in the front room changed their attitudes as her footsteps died away on the marble stairs. Mr. Haley looked up from his thrilling serial story and stared ahead of him with a blank, fixed look. Jim mumbled a curse and slumped into a chair.
gaines_a_lesson_before_dying_A_Lesson_Before_Dying	1993	It was ten minutes to five. “Can I get you a cup of coffee?” Inez asked. “No, thanks.” “You want to sit down?” She still did not look at me. “I’m all right; I don’t mind standing.” I remembered how my aunt and Miss Emma had stood the night before. “I don’t know,” Inez said, shaking her head. “I just don’t know. Now Mr. Louis in there trying to get a bet.” “A bet on what?” She looked at me directly for the first time. She had large eyes, brown and kind. I could see traces of tears that she had tried wiping away. “You can’t get him ready to die.” “Henri Pichot didn’t take that bet, did he?” “I left them in there talking. Mr. Louis say he got a whole case of whiskey he can bet on.” “Henri Pichot?” “He ain’t betting ’gainst you. He ain’t betting on you neither.” “Smart man.” Inez looked at me sadly. I didn’t know if it was because of my cynicism or the task I had facing me. She went back to the stove.
roy_the_god_of_small_things_The_God_of_Small_Things	1998	The letter said that he, their father, had retired from his carbon black job and was emigrating to Australia where he had got a job as Chief of Security at a ceramics factory, and that he couldn’t take Estha with him. He wished everybody in Ayemenem the very best and said that he would look in on Estha if he ever came back to India, which, he went on to say, was a bit unlikely. Baby Kochamma told Rahel that she could keep the letter if she wanted to. Rahel put it back into its envelope. The paper had grown soft, and folded like cloth. She had forgotten just how damp the monsoon air in Ayemenem could be. Swollen cupboards creaked. Locked windows burst open. Books got soft and wavy between their covers. Strange insects appeared like ideas in the evenings and burned themselves on Baby Kochamma’s dim 40-watt bulbs. In the daytime their crisp, incinerated corpses littered the floor and windowsills, and until Kochu Maria swept them away in her plastic dustpan, the air smelled of Something Burning. It hadn’t changed, the June Rain. Heaven opened and the water hammered down, reviving the reluctant old well, greenmossing the pigless pigsty, carpet bombing still, tea-coloured puddles the way memory bombs still, tea-coloured minds.
king_11_22_63_11_22_63	2011	I wasn’t concerned about the consequences— at least not to start with—but only about whether or not it could be done at all. On one of my Sebago trips, I took out my knife and carved AL T. FROM 2007 on a tree near the cabin where I stayed. When I got back here, I jumped in my car and drove on over to Sebago Lake. The cabins where I stayed are gone; there’s a tourist hotel there now. But the tree is still there. So was what I carved into it. Old and smooth, but still there: AL T. FROM 2007. So I knew it could be done. Then I started thinking about the butterfly effect. “There’s a newspaper in The Falls back then, the Lisbon Weekly Enterprise, and the library scanned all their microfilm into the computer in ’05. Speeds things up a lot. I was looking for an accident in the fall or early winter of 1958. A certain kind of accident. I would have gone all the way into early 1959 if necessary, but I found what I was looking for on November fifteenth of ’58. A twelve-year-old girl named Carolyn Poulin was hunting with her father across the river, in the part of Durham that’s called Bowie Hill.
rivers_redeeming_love_Redeeming_Love	1991	“Why not?” “Because 1 don’t want to leave, that’s why. Is that a good enough reason for you?” “If you won’t go with me, at least let me get a little closer.” Finally. Here we go. “Six steps ought to do that, mister. All you have to do is put one foot in front of the other.” “I’m not talking feet and inches, Mara.” All the feelings slowed inside her and spiraled downward as though they were draining away into a black hole beneath her feet. “Angel,” she said. “My name is Angel. Have you got that? Angel! And you’re wasting my time and your dust.” “I’m not wasting anything.” She sat on the bed again and let out her breath. Tilting her head to one side, she looked up at him. “You know, mister, most men are fairly honest when they come. They pay, take what they want, and leave. Then there are a few others, like you. They don’t like being like the rest. So they tell me how much they care and what’s wrong with my life and how they can fix it.” Her mouth curved sardonically.
mcmillan_waiting_to_exhale_Waiting_to_Exhale	1992	Of course, he called right back. "What’s wrong with you, Savannah? What, did somebody break your heart since the last time I saw you or something? You sound bitter.” “I’m not bitter. I’m better. Can I ask you something?” “I’m all ears.” “Have you filed for your divorce?" “Not yet. We’re talking about it.” “I figured as much. But you want me to meet you in Palm Springs so you can fuck my brains out for three days and then go home to your wife, and a month or two later, you’ll call me up all pitiful and probably say something like, even though you love me to death, you can’t leave your wife right now because you’d feel too guilty about leaving your kid, or it’s too much money involved, or whatever other excuses you motherfuckers always manage to come up with." "You obviously don’t know me very well. Savannah. That’s not what I’m planning on doing.” “You all say that shit, Kenneth. I know you have good intentions, but if you’re that damn unhappy, why can’t you leave your wife on your own and keep me out of the picture?”
thiongo_petals_of_blood_Petals_of_Blood	1977	Munira struck a match. Wanja said: ‘Behind you, Karega, there’s a Nyitira.’ Karega gave the Nyitira to Munira who lit it: but this was a poor substitute for the pressure-lamp. The light was pale and their faces and their shadows on the wall were large and grotesque. Wanja collected the glass and the pressure-lamp and put it aside and then turned to Munira. ‘It is nothing. You will get me another one and also a box of wicks. Abdulla ... we must do something about the stock in your shop.’ Her voice was shaky and she stopped, cold silence in the hut. The shadows on the wall kept on moving in a grotesque rhythm to the erratic movement of the smoking thin flame from the Nyitira. Wanja poured the drinks. Munira wanted to tell of an advertising slogan about beer so that they could resume their drinking and small irrel-evandes, but he changed his mind. The drink remained untouched. Karega hopefully waited for Abdulla to tell the story of Dedan Kimathi. But Abdulla suddenly stood up, excused himself and said it was time to go. He might find Joseph's leg pulled by a hyena. Karega was disappointed and stared to the ground as if with Abdulla’s departure he had lost interest in the company.
king_the_shining_The_Shining	1977	She began to drag him again. Danny was beside Jack. One of his hands had fallen off his chest, and Danny replaced it gently, with love. “Are you sure, Mommy?” “Yes. It’s the best thing, Danny.” “It’s like putting him in jail.” “Only for a while.” “Okay, then. Are you sure you can do it?” “Yes.” But it was a near thing, at that. Danny had been cradling his father’s head when they went over the door-sills, but his hands slipped in Jack’s greasy hair as they went into the kitchen. The back of his head struck the tiles, and Jack began to moan and stir. “You got to use smoke,” Jack muttered quickly. “Now run and get me that gascan.” Wendy and Danny exchanged tight, fearful glances. “Help me,” she said in a low voice. For a moment Danny stood as if paralyzed by his father’s face, and then he moved jerkily to her side and helped her hold the left leg. They dragged him across the kitchen floor in a nightmare kind of slow motion, the only sounds the faint, insectile buzz of the fluorescent lights and their own labored breathing.
ihimaera_the_whale_rider_Whale_Rider	2006	He used to tell me that his favorite image of Australia was of Joan Sutherland singing “Advance Australia Fair," a can of Foster’s in one hand, and surfing into Sydney Harbor like "an antipodean Statue of Liberty." See what I mean? All those big words? That’s Kingi, for sure. I was still in bed when the telephone rang, so Teff answered. Next minute, a pillow rarn^ flying it me anrl Jeff yanked me out of bed, saying. "Phone. Rawiri. And T'll ralk. to you later.” WHIl 1~bf jyrJ rw>wc wag fhat PorOUrangj gaffing married to Ana. Nanny Flowers had been pestering both of them about if. “And yon know whar she’s like” Poronrangi laughed. "Pont bother to come homf. though ” he sairl "hp-cause the wedding is just going to be very Kahij would be rhe flower girl “How is she?” I asked. “She’s five and started school now,” Porourangi said. “She’s still living with Rehua’s folks. She missed you very much last summer." “Ciive. her a kiss from me," I said. "And also kiss Nanny. Tell everybody I love them. How’s Koro?” "Tr.
mitchell_gone_with_the_wind_Gone_with_the_Wind	1937	'Oh, to do this to a fine man like you!' 'What's she done?' 'She didn't write you? Oh, I guess she was too ashamed to write you. She should be ashamed! Oh, to have such a mean sister!' By this time, Frank could not even get questions to his lips. He sat staring at her, grey-faced, the reins slack in his hands. 'She's going to marry Tony Fontaine next month. Oh, I'm so sorry, Frank. So sorry to be the one to tell you. She just got tired of waiting and she was afraid she'd be an old maid.' Mammy was standing on the front porch when Frank helped Scarlett out of the buggy. She had evidently been standing there for some time, for her head-rag was damp and the old shawl clutched tightly about her showed rain-spots. Her wrinkled black face was a study in anger and apprehension and her lip was pushed out farther than Scarlett could ever remember. She peered quickly at Frank and, when she saw who it was, her face changed—pleasure, bewilderment and something akin to guilt spreading over it. She waddled forward to Frank with pleased greetings and grinned and curtsied when he shook her hand.
sayers_the_nine_tailors_The_Nine_Tailors	1934	That was one of her crazes, you understand. And another was, that she didn’t believe in insurance and she didn’t believe a lot in safes, neither. She had a safe in her town house, naturally, and kept her stuff locked up in it, but I don’t suppose she’d have done that if the safe hadn’t been put in by her husband when he was alive. She was too mean to buy as much as a strongbox for herself, and when she went away on a visit, she preferred to trust to her own wits. Mad as a March Hare, she must have been,” said the Superintendent, thoughtfully, “but there! you’d be surprised what a lot of these funny old ladies there are going about loose in the world. And of course, nobody ever liked to say anything to her, because she was disgustingly rich and had the full disposal of her own property. The Thorpes were about the only relations she had in the world, so they invited her to Mr. Henry’s wedding, though it’s my belief they all hated the sight of her. If they hadn’t have asked her, she’d have taken offence, and—well, there! You can’t offend your rich relations, can you?”
russo_empire_falls_Empire_Falls	2002	“Are you sure?” Miles wondered, still far from at ease. The cat in question, in Miles’s opinion, possessed many borderline supernatural abilities, including a talent for materializing at will. “That’s hilarious, dear boy,” she replied, then resumed her conversation on the phone. Their twenty-year relationship, Miles often thought, could be summed up in those four words. From the beginning, when Miles and her daughter, Cindy, were in high school together, Mrs. Whiting had referred to him as “dear boy,” though Miles doubted he was particularly dear to her. And she was forever pronouncing things he said “hilarious,” despite a demeanor that suggested she didn’t find them even remotely funny. The Planning and Development Commission office, which Miles had never entered before, was large, and along one whole wall sat a scale model of downtown Empire Falls, so obviously idealized that he didn’t immediately recognize it as the town he’d lived his whole life in. The streets were lined with bright green toy trees, and the buildings so brightly painted, the streets so clean, that Miles’s first thought was that this was an artist’s notion of what a future Empire Falls might look like after an ambitious and costly revitalization project.
adichie_americanah_Americanah	2013	Stop struggling.” They were sitting side by side on a desk in the back of his almost empty classroom. The end-of-break bell began to ring, jangling and discordant. “Yes, it’s a fact,” she said. “What?” “I love you.” How easily the words came out, how loudly. She wanted him to hear and she wanted the boy sitting in front, bespectacled and studious, to hear and she wanted the girls gathered in the corridor outside to hear. “Fact,” Obinze said, with a grin. Because of her, he had joined the debate club, and after she spoke, he clapped the loudest and longest, until her friends said, “Obinze, please, it is enough.” Because of him, she joined the sports club and watched him play football, sitting by the sidelines and holding his bottle of water. But it was table tennis that he loved, sweating and shouting as he played, glistening with energy, smashing the small white ball, and she marveled at his skill, how he seemed to stand too far away from the table and yet managed to get the ball. He was already the undefeated school champion, as he had been, he told her, in his former school.
munro_lives_of_girls_and_women_Lives_of_Girls_and_Women	1971	Nor would my coarseness ever be translated into their fineness; it was too late, the difference lay too deep for that. But what about Naomi? She had been like me; once she had had an epidemic of warts on her fingers; she had suffered from Athlete’s Foot; we had hidden in the Girls’ Toilet together when we had the curse at the same time and were afraid to do Tumbling—one at a time, in front of the rest of the class—afraid of some slipping or bleeding, and too embarrassed to ask to be excused. What was this masquerade she was going in for now, with her nail polish, her pastel sweater? She was soon great friends with Molly and Carla. Her conversation, when she came over to my house or summoned me to hers, was full of their diets, skin-care routines, hair-shampooing methods, clothes, diaphragms (Molly had been married for a year and Carla was to be married in June). Sometimes Carla came to Naomi’s house when I was there; she and Naomi always talked about washing, either washing their sweaters or washing their underclothes or washing their hair. They would say, “I washed my cardigan!” “Did you? Did you wash it cold or lukewarm?”
holt_waimea_summer_Waimea_Summer	1976	“I was quite young—home from college for only a few years. That was in 1896—just after the Queen’s supporters attempted to overthrow the provisional government. Your people were Royalist to the core. My own family was split down the middle. I was on the side of the P.G.’s—that is, not a Royalist.” “One of your brothers was killed,” I blurted. “It was a terrible blow. My Uncle, David O. Baxter, on the other hand, was a staunch Royalist. As a matter of fact, he was the Queen’s business agent.” This detail of Baxteriana jarred the traditional view I’d always received from my family. “You can imagine what talk took place in our family gatherings! My father, whose people had come here from England when he was a boy, was also a Royalist. My mother’s people were mikanele . . . Do you know what that means?” “Missionary.” “My mother was on the side of the reformers.” “A house divided against itself ... It was my father’s phrase when he met opposition from my mother.” Baxter laughed for the first time. “What a fiasco that whole thing was. When I think of it now, I sometimes feel embarrassed.
brooks_world_war_z_World_War_Z:_An_Oral_History_of_the_Zombie_War	2006	During the Denver push, there was a tall building where a couple hundred refugees had accidentally been locked in with the infection and were now completely reanimated. Before our guys could storm the entrance, one 1. PT: Physical Training. 2. AIT: Advanced Individual Training. of the Ks had his own idea to run up to the roof of a building across the street and start barking to draw Zack up onto the higher floors. It worked like a dream. The Gs made it up to the roof, saw their prey, made for him, and went spilling over the side. After Denver, Lemming went right into the playbook. Even the infantry started using it when Ks weren’t available. It wasn’t uncommon to see a grunt standing on the roof of a building, calling out to an infested building close by. But the primary and most common mission of any K team was scouting, both SC and LRP. SC is Sweep and Clear, just attached to a regular unit, like conventional warfare. That’s where training really paid off. Not only could they sniff Zack out miles before us, but the sounds they made always told you exactly what to expect. You could tell everything you needed to know by the pitch of the growl, and the frequency of the bark.
woodson_another_brooklyn_Another_Brooklyn	2016	Platform shoes dominated New York, so we stumbled through the neighborhood in knee-high platform boots that zipped up the side but were anything but waterproof. I shivered through the winter, unsteady and half-frozen while my father stared down at his hands. He was living inside his faith by then, which left little room for understanding teenage girls. Where my brother and I had once been locked behind a half-open window, we were now more free than either of us could understand. Some evenings coming home I looked up to see my brother at the window, staring over the block, blank-eyed. A week after Christmas, a woman was found coatless and dead on the roof of the Marcy Houses projects. Women had been found dead before—in hallways, in basements, in the unlit corners of subway platforms. Sometimes, as we walked the streets, we imagined our own selves found somewhere. How long would it take to know? Who would be the first to ask, Have you seen August? Have you seen ... Angela ... ? Angela said, I don’t know where my mother is. Her voice was thick, a tremble to the words. I grabbed her hard, pulled her to me. Angela, I said, she’s fine. She’s fine!
garner_monkey_grip_Monkey_Grip	1977	What are you up to?’ ‘I’ve just had a huge snort of coke,’ I cheerfully announced. ‘Ooh, you lucky thing! Haven’t got any more, have you?’ ‘No,’ I lied, sitting there in her room with an envelope of it in my back pocket. What’s happening to me? But, as if in revenge for my greed, as I left her house the coke turned around, gave a twist and a wriggle, and fled away, dumping me unceremoniously in a limbo, skew-whiff and desolate. I drifted through the rest of the afternoon in a puzzled dream. And when I came home I decided not to waste another snort, but to wait till my body was clear. I sat down at the table to transfer the coke to an uncrushed wrapper, and idly sniffed up the residue as I worked. How thoughtlessly you can persuade yourself that what you’re doing at any particular moment is not actually getting into dope, or eating, or smoking, or whatever it is you’ve rationally decided not to do; that it’s just a small aberration, or to make sure something is not wasted—or it’s not anything at all because your mind has slipped its moorings, disconnected itself for that moment from your body.
michaelides_the_silent_patient_The_Silent_Patient	2019	Just to buy time. I kept focusing on the clock. Listening to it tick. And then suddenly it was ten o’clock.... And then ... ten-thirty. And still Gabriel hadn’t come home. ‘“He’s late,’ he said. ‘Maybe he’s not coming.’ “‘He’s coming,’ I said. “‘Well, it’s a good thing I’m here to keep you company.’ “And then the clock struck eleven, and I heard a car outside. The man went to the window and looked out. ‘Perfect timing,’ he said.” What happened next—Alicia said—happened fast. The man grabbed Alicia and swung her chair around, so she faced away from the door. He said he would shoot Gabriel in the head if she spoke one word or made a single sound. Then he disappeared. A moment later the lights fused and everything went dark. In the hallway, the front door opened and closed. “Alicia?” Gabriel called out. There was no reply, and he called her name again. He walked into the living room—and saw her by the fireplace, sitting with her back to him. “Why are you sitting in the dark?” Gabriel asked. No reply.
dumaurier_the_kings_general_The_King_s_General	1946	Their appraising, hostile eyes burnt through our backs but must be endured for the sake of the fresh air we craved, and sometimes their laughter came to us. Their voices were hard and ugly, for they were mostly from London and the eastern counties, except the staff officers of Lord Robartes, and I never could abide the London twang, made doubly alien now through enmity. Never once did we see Gartred when we took our exercise, though her two daughters, reserved and unfriendly, played in the far corner of the garden, watching us and the children with blank eyes. They had neither of them inherited her beauty, but were brown-haired and heavylooking, like their dead father, Antony Denys. “I don’t know what to make of it,” said Alice in my ear. “She is supposed to be a prisoner like us, but she is not treated so. I have watched her from my window walk in the walled garden beneath the summerhouse, talking and smiling to Lord Robartes, and the servants say he dines with her most evenings.” “She only does what many other women do in wartime,” I said, “and turns the stress of the day to her advantage.” “You mean she is for the Parliament?” asked Alice.
strout_olive_kitteridge_Olive_Kitteridge	2009	When she took off her mittens, her hands were as thin as a child’s, yet when she touched the buttons on the cash register, or slid some- thing into a white bag, they assumed the various shapes of a graceful grown woman’s hands, hands—thought Henry—that would touch her husband lovingly, that would, with the quiet authority of a woman, someday pin a baby’s diaper, smooth a fevered forehead, tuck a gift from the tooth fairy under a pillow. Watching her, as she poked her glasses back up onto her nose while reading over the list of inventory, Henry thought she was the stuff of America, for this was back when the hippie business was beginning, and reading in Newsweek about the marijuana and “free love” could cause an unease in Henry that one look at Denise dispelled. “We’re going to hell like the Romans,” Olive said triumphantly. “America’s a big cheese gone rotten.” But Henry would not stop believing that the temperate prevailed, and in his pharmacy, every day he worked beside a girl whose only dream was to someday make a family with her husband. “I don’t care about Women’s Lib,” she told Henry. “I want to have a house and make beds."
lewis_arrowsmith_elmer_gantry_dodsworth_Arrowsmith	1926	Then, suffering, ghastly frightened, dumb, he was led through an arched doorway into the auditorium. Millions of faces were staring at his apologetic insignificance—faces in the curving lines of pews, faces in the low balcony, eyes which followed him and doubted him and noted that his heels were run down. The agony grew while he was prayed over and sung over. The pastor and the lay chairman of the Lecture Course opened with suitable devotions. While Martin trembled and tried to look brazenly at the massed people who were looking at him, while he sat nude and exposed and unprotected on the high platform, the pastor made announcement of the Thursday Missionary Supper and the Little Lads’ Marching Club. They sang a brief cheerful hymn or two—Martin wondering whether to sit or stand—and the chairman prayed that “our friend who will address us to-day may have power to put his Message across.” Through the prayer Martin sat with his forehead in his hand, feeling foolish, and raving, “I guess this is the proper attitude—they’re all gawping at me—gosh, won’t he ever quit?—oh, damn it, now what was that point I was going to make about fumigation?—oh. Lord, he’s winding up and I’ve got to shoot!”
wright_native_son_Native_Son	1940	He did not speak to Jack or G.H., nor they to him. He lit a cigarette with shaking fingers and watched the spinning billiard balls roll and gleam and clack over the green stretch of doth, dropping into holes after bounding to and fro from the rubber cushions. He felt impelled to say something to ease the swelling in his chest. Hurriedly, he flicked his cigarette into a spittoon and, with twin eddies of blue smoke jutting from his black nostrils, shouted hoarsely, “Jack, I betcha two bits you can’t make it!” Jack did not answer; the ball shot straight across the table and vanished into a side pocket. “You would’ve lost,” Jack said. “Too late now,” Bigger said. “You wouldn’t bet, so you lost.” He spoke without looking. His entire body hungered for keen sensation, something exciting and violent to relieve the tautness. It was now ten minutes to three and Gus had not come. If Gus stayed away much longer, it would be too late. And Gus knew that. If they were going to do anything, it certainly ought to be done before folks started coming into the streets to buy their food for supper, and while the cop was down at the other end of the block.
rimington_at_risk_At_Risk	2004	Twenty Putty of the Silly variety coming up. Uno, dos, tres ...” As she followed Faraj out of the shop, bag in hand, the assistant called after her. “Excuse me, you’ve left your ...” Her heart lurched. He was waving the shopping list. Apologetically pushing her way back to the counter, she took it from him. On it were visible the words clear gelatin, isopropyl, candles, pipe cleaners; his fingers covered up the rest. Outside, as she clutched the list and the carrier bag, Faraj looked at her with controlled anger from beneath the brim of his Yankees baseball cap. “Pm sorry,” she said, her eyes watering in the sudden cold. “I don’t think they’ll remember us. They’re very busy.” Her chest, though, was still pounding. The list looked harmless enough, but to anyone with a certain sort of military experience it would send an unmistakable message. That said, of course, such a person was hardly likely . .. “Remember who you are,” he told her quietly, speaking in Urdu. “Remember why we’re here.” “I know who I am,” she snapped in the same language. “And I remember all that I have to remember.”
keyes_joy_street_Joy_Street	1950	I’m glad of a chance to prove it to you!” She had obediently encircled his neck, as soon as she was aware of his two supporting arms, but he could feel the trembling, first of her fingers, and then of her whole body. The room was bitterly cold; probably she was half frozen, in her lacy nightgown and her silk robe. This conviction was strengthened when he realized that her teeth were chattering too. She was not the sort of girl to be frightened by a storm—or by a man. But somehow he resented the quivering of her body; strangely, it robbed this of allure. When he laid her down on her bed, so easily as to indicate that it had cost him no effort to carry her, he would not even have kissed her if it had not seemed abrupt to leave her without some sort of a casual caress. But the kiss was only a light one on her brow. “If I remember rightly; you were told to stay in that bed for three or four days and give that ankle of yours a chance to get well,” he said, looking down at her in much the same way that he might have looked at a child of whom he was rather fond, but whom he found rather troublesome.
potok_the_chosen_The_Chosen	1967	“Keep that infield solid!” A short, thin boy came up to the plate and stood there with his feet together, holding the bat awkwardly over his head. He wore steel-rimmed glasses that gave his face a pinched, old man’s look. He swung wildly at the first pitch, and the force of the swing spun him completely around. His earlocks lifted off the sides of his head and followed him around in an almost horizontal circle. Then he steadied himself and resumed his position near the plate, short, thin, his feet together, holding his bat over his head in an awkward grip. The umpire called the strike in a loud, clear voice, and I saw Sidney Goldberg look over at me and grin broadly. “If he studies Talmud like that, he’s dead,” Sidney Goldberg said. I grinned back at him. “Keep that infield solid!” Mr. Galanter shouted from third base. “Malter, a little to your left! Good!” The next pitch was too high, and the boy chopped at it, lost his bat and fell forward on his hands. Sidney Goldberg and I looked at each other again. Sidney was in my class. We were similar in build, thin and lithe, with somewhat spindly arms and legs.
hersey_a_bell_for_adano_A_Bell_for_Adano	1945	Just to cover ourselves, well make out a report saying just what happened, that General Marvin ordered us to keep the carts out, that Major Joppolo countermanded the order. You make it out, Trapani, and send it to G-one of the division.” “Yes, sir.” Captain Purvis left. Sergeant Trapani said to Schultz: “That’s a hell of a note, General Marvin’s liable never to came back here, and if he did he’d probably never notice the carts. But once you get the thing on paper, it’s just a sure way to ruin the Major. And he’s so right about these carts anyway.” Corporal Schultz said: “Don’t bother me, I got a headache of my own this morning.” Sergeant Trapani rolled a slip of purple paper, off a Fascist pad, into his typewriter. He wrote: For Lieutenant Colonel W. W. Norris, G-l, 49th Division. From Captain N. Purvis, 123rd M.P. Company, Adano. Subject: Mule Carts, town of Adano. 1. On July 19, orders were received from General Marvin, 49th Division, to keep all mule carts out of the town of Adano. Guards were posted at bridge over A BELL FOR ADANO Rosso River and at Cacopardo Sulphur Refinery.
ferber_cimarron_Cimarron	1930	He was not there. Together they looked under the wagons, behind the trees. Cim! Cim! Cimarron Cravat, if you are hiding I shall punish you if you don’t come out this minute. A shrill note of terror crept into her voice. She began to run up and down, calling him. She began to scream his name, her voice cracking grotesquely. Cim! Cim! She prayed as she ran, mumblingly. O God, help me find him. O God, don’t let anything happen to him. Dear God, help me find him— Cim! Cim! Cim! She had heard among pioneer stories that of the McAlastair wagon train crossing the continent toward California in ’49. The Benson party had got separated perhaps a half day’s journey from the front section when scouts brought news of Indians on the trail. Immediately they must break camp and hurry on to join the section ahead for mutual protection. In the midst of the bustle and confusion it was discovered that a child—a boy of three—was missing. The whole party searched at first confidently, then frenziedly, then despairingly. The parents of the missing child had three other small children and another on the way. Every second’s delay meant possible death to every other member of the party.
cronin_the_keys_of_the_kingdom_The_Keys_of_the_Kingdom	1941	Rebuffed, he climbed sombrely to his room, chilled by the mounting premonitions of this unknown dread. Nora, having scarcely given him a look, had gone immediately to bed. And for an hour he heard Polly, scurrying with trays and hot-water bottles, entreating Nora in a low voice, persecuting her with agitated attentions. Nora, thin as a wand, and pale, somehow had the air of sick-rooms, Polly, worn and harassed, even more negligent in her dress, had acquired a new gesture — a quick pressing of her hand against her brow. Late into the night, from her adjoining room, he heard the mutter of her prayers. Torn by the enigma, Francis bit his lip, turning restlessly between his sheets. Next morning dawned clear. He rose and, according to his habit, went out to early mass. When he returned he found Nora seated outside on the back-yard steps warming herself in a patch of sunshine while at her feet some chickens cheeped and scuttled. She made no move to let him pass, but when he had stood a moment, she raised her head contemplatively. “It’s the holy man . . . been out already, saving his soul!” He reddened at her tone, so unexpected, so quietly bitter.
costain_the_black_rose_The_Black_Rose	1945	I think we must contrive somehow to take her home to England with us.” Maryam rose as though conscious of the need of including Walter in her appreciation. He had turned and walked to the other side, where he was examining a brass Arabian lamp with listless interest. The old feeling of being apart from things, the result of his unhappy boyhood, had come back to him. He was thinking that she would always contrast his attitude with that of his friend’s and that he must seem to her cautious and indifferent. “But,” he thought in self-defense, “someone must consider the practical side of things.” She followed him, with hesitation in her steps, and said, “I want to thank you, Walter.” “You have my friend to thank for this, not me.” “No, no!” she cried. “You too. I thank you from the bottom of my heart.” “Well, it seems to be settled,” said Tristram in a loud and cheerful voice. Maryam began to dry her eyes. “Now I must get to my work,” she said. “My most severe taskmaster will be back soon and will demand to know why the fire has not been built and the kettles cleaned.”
davenport_the_constant_image_The_Constant_Image	1960	Harriet started to rise, but she 168 hesitated. Then she sank back into her chair and said, “Signora, may I ask you something? Would you prefer—shall I promise you—?” she could not speak. Carlo’s mother thought for a time. “I ought to make you promise me,” she said slowly. “The sooner you two are parted the better, now. I ought to let you promise me not to see him again while you are here.” She looked at Harriet gravely. “After you leave you will not see him again.” Harriet kept her eyes fixed on Signora Nora’s solemn face. “It would be beyond my courage,” said Carlo’s mother, “to ask you not to see him while you are still here. I could not bring myself to punish both of you so much.” If I weep now, Harriet knew, I shall not be able to stop for hours. She held herself stiff, crossing the room with Signora Nora to the door. Carlo’s mother did not kiss her in farewell as a more sentimental woman might have done; they stood for a moment, their hands clasped; then Harriet started blindly down the stairs. Carlo was there, pacing the floor, when she came in.
clair_rattlebone_Rattlebone	1994	I sat on the cold floor and rested my back against the couch. “What you been doing?” I asked her. I stretched out my legs. “Nothing. Just sitting up here listening to the radio. Owen sent me a request yesterday.” “That’s nice. Everybody’s been asking about you at the bus stop. I miss seeing you.” “Yeah, me too. I’m coming back to school Monday.” “What will your mother do without Puddin to take care of?” “I don’t know, and I don’t care,” she said. The tone wasn’t what I had expected, but I could see how she might feel both anguish and relief at no longer being responsible for him. “You talk to Owen since the request?” “No, I can’t be bothered with him, either,” she said. “I’ll believe that when I see it in writing,” I said. “Oh, I’m not doing that anymore.” “What, no more Owen?” “I mean I’m through with writing stuff down,” she said. “You mean give up your diary after all this time?” “Yeah.” “Where is it?” I asked her.
rawling_the_yearling_The_Yearling	1939	Rations had been short and hookworm abundant. Penny had grown to maturity no bigger than a boy. His feet were small, his shoulders narrow, his ribs and hips jointed together in a continuous fragile framework. He had stood among the Forresters one day, like an ash sapling among giant oaks. Lem Forrester looked down at him and said, “Why, you leetle ol’ penny-piece, you. You’re good money, a’right, but hit jest don’t come no smaller. Leetle ol’ Penny Baxter-” The name had been his only one ever since. When he voted, he signed himself “Ezra Ezekial Baxter,” but when he paid his taxes, he was put down as “Penny Baxter” and made no protest. But he was a sound amalgam; sound as copper itself; and with something, too, of the copper’s softness. He leaned backward in his honesty, so that he was often a temptation to store-keepers and mill-owners and horse-traders. Store-keeper Boyles at Volusia, as honest as he, had once given him a dollar too much in change. His horse being lame. Penny had walked the long miles back again to return it. “The next time you came to trade would have done,” Boyles said.
stone_the_agony_and_the_ecstasy_The_Agony_and_the_Ecstasy	1961	He stood before the Pope’s wooden chair feeling as though he were a corpse in the dead room of Santo Spirito and a dissector had just chiseled off his skull, lifted out his brain, and let it slip to the floor. He half slid to the comer of a bench, sat staring blindly at the whitewashed wall before him. “Many in our hierarchy feel that you have blasphemed; they are confirmed by an article written by Aretino of Venice . . .” “A blackmailer!” “. . . a friend of Titian, of Charles V, Benvenuto Cellini, the late Francis I of France, Jacopo Sansovino. . . . Here is one of the copies passing from hand to hand in Rome. I’m convinced the Council of Trent has also studied it.” Michelangelo took the paper from the Pope, began to read: Is it possible that you can have represented in the sacred temple of God, above the altar of His Son, in the greatest Chapel in the world, where Cardinals and Bishops and the Vicar of Christ, with Catholic ceremonial and sacred ritual, confess, contemplate and adore the body and blood of Jesus ... so lofty a subject, with angels and saints without a remnant of modesty and denuded of all celestial ornament! He jerked his head up abruptly.
wise_dumachas_and_sheba_Dumachas_and_Sheba	1979	So indefatigably and irrevocably in love. All there was at that moment, and as it seemed eternal, was their love for each other. As the tears finally began to subside, Dumachas took a deep breath of relief to gain control. Turning to Sheba, he whispered, “I’m sorry.” Sheba merely pressed her lips to his and then, falling into a full kiss, they grabbed at each other as if they knew this would be the last time. Dumachas kissed Sheba’s neck, her shoulder, her breast, stomach and navel. And then he kissed her where he had hurt her. He repeated that he was sorry for what he had done, and he kissed her again. The next morning, the Romans arrested Dumachas and carried him off to Antonia, where he was sentenced to two years in prison for speaking out against Rome. Aurelius, Lucius, and Marcellus were waiting impatiently on the balcony of the house of Vasinius. Aurelius smiled at the tribune in an effort to relieve his obvious concern. “Are the men well hidden?” Marcellus asked. “Everyone is ready,” Aurelius assured him. “They’ll probably wait until the sun is high to attack.” “Sheba feels that he’ll find a way to kill me.” Marcellus spoke childishly.
clavell_noble_house_Noble_House	1981	“Close all your corporate accounts?” “Yes, old boy. Today. Sorry and all that but my board thinks it wise for the moment, until you weath—” “But surely you don’t think we’re in trouble?” Richard Kwang laughed. “Didn’t you see Haply’s article in the Guardian? ‘. . . malicious lies spread by certain tai-pans and a certain big bank. . . .’” “Oh yes, I saw that. More of his poppycock, I’d say. Ridiculous! Spread rumors? Why should anyone do that? Huh, I talked to both Paul Havergill and Southerby this morning and they said Haply better watch out this time if he implies it’s them or he’ll get a libel suit. That young man deserves a horsewhipping! However ... I’d like a cashier’s check now—-sorry, but you know how boards are.” “Yes, yes I do.” Richard Kwang kept his smile on the surface of his face but he hated the big florid man even more than usual. He knew that the board was a rubber stamp for Barre’s decisions. “We’ve no problems. We’re a billion-dollar bank. As to the Aberdeen branch, they’re just a lot of superstitious locals.”
michener_texas_Texas	1985	The heart of the lint has been eaten out.” “You mean our cotton’s gone?” “Exactly what I mean,” and he took her out to the extensive fields to see the awful damage, this sudden assault upon their way of life. That was the year when the boll weevil first appeared in the fields of East Texas, and in each succeeding year the scourge became more terrible. Entire plantations were wiped out, and there was no countermeasure to halt this devastation. The weevil laid its eggs in the ripening boll, and as the larvae matured they ate away the choicest part of the lint. When the weevil finished, the plant was worthless. When times had been good, Cobb was like everyone else in Texas: “I want no interference from government,” but now when trouble struck he expected immediate help, and he was the first in his district to demand that something be done. A young expert from A&M, a most gloomy man, was sent to share with the local planters what was known: “Cotton is indigenous to various locations throughout the world. India and Egypt, for example. But our strain comes from Mexico, and a very fine strain it is, one of the best. “When it jumped north it left behind its major enemies.
auel_the_plains_of_passage_The_Plains_of_Passage	1990	The danger was, if anything, to the humans. Though woolly mammoths were not the most gigantic examples of their species, they were the most gigantic animals the humans had ever seen—or that most people were ever likely to see—and with their shaggy coats even more filled out for winter, and their immense curved tusks, they looked bigger, up close, than Ayla remembered. Their enormous tusks began, in calves, with inch-and-a-half-long tushes, enlarged upper incisors. After a year, the baby tushes were lost and replaced by permanent tusks that grew continually from then on. While the tusks of mammoths were social adornments, important in interactions with their own kind, they also had a more practical function. They were used to break up ice, and the ice-breaking abilities of mammoths were phenomenal. The first time Ay la observed the practice, she had been watching a herd of females approach the frozen river. Several of them used their tusks, somewhat smaller and straighter than the ivory shafts of males, to tear out ice that was caught in the lee of rock crevices. It puzzled her at first, until she noticed a small one pick up a piece with her little trunk and put it in her mouth. “Water!” Ayla said.
tartt_the_goldfinch_The_Goldfinch	2014	and then—after dragging my mother there—storm out ten minutes later after insulting someone or mocking them to their face. This was a different, more affable energy, with the pills: a combination of sluggishness and brightness, a bemused, goofy, floating quality. His walk was looser. He napped more, nodded agreeably, lost the thread of his arguments, ambled about barefoot with his bathrobe halfway open. From his genial cursing, his infrequent shaving, the relaxed way he talked around the cigarette in the corner of his mouth, it was almost as if he were playing a character: some cool guy from a fifties noir or maybe Ocean’s Eleven, a lazy, sated gangster with not much to lose. Yet even in the midst of his new laid-backness he still had that crazed and slightly heroic look of schoolboy insolence, all the more stirring since it was drifting towards autumn, half-ruined and careless of itself. In the house on Desert End Road, which had the super-expensive cable television package my mother would never let us get, he drew the blinds against the glare and sat smoking in front of the television, glassy as an opium addict, watching ESPN with the sound off, no sport in particular, anything and everything that came on: cricket, jai alai, badminton, croquet.
whitehead_the_underground_railroad_The_Underground_Railroad	2017	Lovey visited her friend as well, but the young girl was not immune to Hob’s reputation and got skittish in the presence of Nag and Mary and the others. She stayed until her nerves gave out. Cora lay on the floor and moaned. Two weeks after her beating, she endured dizzy spells and a pounding in her skull. For the most part she was able to keep it at bay and work the row, but sometimes it was all she could do to stay upright until the sun sank. Every hour when the water girl brought the ladle she licked it clean and felt the metal on her teeth. Now she had nothing left. Mary appeared. “Sick again,” she said. She had a wet cloth ready and placed it on Cora’s brow. She still maintained a reservoir of maternal feeling after the loss of her five children— three dead before they could walk and the others sold off when they were old enough to carry water and grab weeds around the great house. Mary descended from pure Ashanti stock, as did her two husbands. Pups like that, it didn’t take much salesmanship. Cora moved her mouth in silent thanks. The cabin walls pressed on her. Up in the loft one of the other women—Rida by the stench—rummaged and banged.
lengle_a_wrinkle_in_time_A_Wrinkle_in_Time	1962	Meg would turn white with fury when people looked at him and clucked, shaking their heads sadly. “Don’t worry about Charles Wallace, Meg,” her father had once told her. Meg remembered it very clearly because it was shortly before he went away. “There’s nothing the matter with his mind. He just does things in his own way arid in his own time.” “I don’t want him to grow up to be dumb like me,” Meg had said. “Oh, my darling, you’re not dumb,” her father answered. “You’re like Charles Wallace. Your development has to go at its own pace. It just doesn’t happen to be the usual pace.” “How do you know?” Meg had demanded. “How do you know I’m not dumb? Isn’t it just because you love me?” “I love you, but that’s not what tells me. Mother and I’ve given you a number of tests, you know.” Yes, that was true. Meg had realized that some of the “games” her parents played with her were tests of some kind, and that there had been more for her and Charles Wallace than for the twins. “IQ tests, you mean?”
taylor_the_travels_of_jaimie_mcpheeters_The_Travels_of_Jaimie_McPheeters	1959	He and I had exchanged no words of any kind. Riding along, I’d been stiff and uncomfortable, not finding anything to hang onto except his waist, which I didn’t like to bother for fear of making him mad and being shot. So I held onto his coattails, in case there should be an emergency of the horse shying or like that. Getting on toward noon, we stopped to eat, and I learned some more about the party. About the first thing that turned up was that the old gentleman, who went by the name of John, claimed to be John Murrel, the pirate and outlaw. I was acquainted with this Murrel, or leastways with the real article. He had been written up in a paper-backed book I’d got off a shantyboater for two stringy rabbits from my traps. According to the reports, he had ended up by going around trying to coax all the slaves to rise up against their masters and kill them with axes and hoes, upon which he would run a “southern empire,” with whiskey and women for all. It might have worked, too, but one of his partners named Steward told on him, and the people around Natchez charged forward and placed Murrel in jail, where they hoped he would be less of a nuisance.
young_buying_time_Buying_Time	2009	“I see the truth as the truth.” Erickson roughly brushed past her. His forehead pulsated with rage as he entered the humongous walk-in closet, most of it stocked with Claire’s winter clothes. Too bad he couldn’t just set a match to her side of the room. Every evening, Erickson carefully selected his attire for the next day. He browsed the extensive lineup of suits, then reached for a grey Versace. He turned to the tie rack and selected a burgundy tie with tiny white polka dots. What did Claire’s knowledge mean for his chances of winning the nomination? Would she go public with the DVD when his appointment was announced? Erickson walked back into the bathroom and hung the suit and tie in the dressing area next to the shower. He could feel Claire watching him, but intentionally ignored her. Time was up. If Becker wasn’t going to move and move immediately, he would take care of the problem himself. Waverly locked himself in his study and stared at his BlackBer-ry. He wanted it to ring, but at the same time, he prayed that it would not. Quincy had really screwed up this time. He checked the BlackBerry’s charge level for the third time, then glanced at the time display. Two more minutes.
ghosh_the_shadow_lines_Shadow_Lines	1988	Tridib shrugged, stopped the car, and turned it around. Thank you, May said, laying her hand on his arm, hyt_he shook her hand off, his face completely impassive. He brought the car to an abrupt halt a few feet from the dog. May jumped out and ran across the road. Tridib and I followed. The dog was lying on its side, with one half of its back at a right angle to the other. It was whimpering and a ribbon of blood was trickling slowly out of its mouth. Its back’s broken. May said dully. It must have been hit by a car. She grimaced, turning her head away, and a tremor seemed to run through her whole body. Then she took a deep breath, forced herself to look up again, walked over to the car and came back with the large leather handbag she always carried. Opening it, she took out a penknife and a handkerchief. What’s she going to do? I shouted in panic to Tridib. Stop her: don’t let her do it. Tridib’s hand shot out and gripped her wrist. You can’t do this, he said. It’s too dangerous. It can still bite; it’s probably rabid. May brushed his hand off without a word.
finney_invasion_of_the_body_snatchers_Invasion_of_the_Body_Snatchers	1955	I hope I never again in my life see anything as frightful as those eyes. I could look at them for only a second at a time, then I had to close my own. They were almost, but not quite—not yet—as large as Becky’s. They were not quite the same shape, or precisely the same shade— but getting there. The expression of those eyes, though ... Watch an unconscious person come to, and at first the eyes show only the least dull beginnings of comprehension, the first faint flickers of returning intelligence. That is all that had yet happened to these eyes. The steady awareness, the quiet alertness of Becky Driscoll’s eyes were horribly parodied and diluted here. Yet, washed out a dozen times over as they were, you could nevertheless see, in these blank blue eyes caught in the trembling beam of my light, the first faint hint of what—given time—would become Becky Driscoll’s eyes. I moaned, and bent double, clutching my stomach tight under my folded arms. There was a scar on the left forearm of the thing on the shelf, just above the wrist. Becky had a small smooth bum mark there, and I remembered its shape because it crudely resembled an outline drawing of the South American continent.
ford_independence_day_Independence_Day	1996	My back’s already sweaty through my shirt. “And how’s your brother?” “Weird. But okay.” Maintaining her belly-down, she rotates her head around on its slender stem, some routine from dance class or gymnastics, though an unmistakable signal: she is Paul’s burn amiga\ the two of them are closer than the two of us; this all could’ve been different with better parents, but isn’t; do not fail to notice it. “Is your mom okay too?” Clarissa stops rotating her head and wrinkles her nose as though I’d announced an unsavory subject, then rolls over on her back and stares skyward. “She’s much worse,” she says, and looks unconvincingly worried. “Worse than what?” “Than you!” She rounds her eyes upward in mock surprise. “She and Charley had a howler this week. And they had one last week too. And one the week before.” “Howlers” mean big disputes, not embarrassing verbal miscues. “Hmmmm, hmm, hmm,” she says, meaning most of what she knows is being retained silently. I of course can’t quiz her on this subject—a cardinal rule once divorce has become the governing institution—though I wish I knew more.
james_minty_alley_Minty_Alley	1936	* This is between us, eh! ’ he said, and winked knowingly. ‘ As you say,’ said Haynes. ‘ Honour bright?’ ‘ You can depend on me.’ Benoit had not gone five minutes when there was a knock at the door. Mrs. Rouse, thought Haynes, and it was. ‘ Come in, madam,’ he said, and offered her a chair. ‘ No, Mr. Haynes. I am not for long.’ The difference between her appearance today and before when she had led Haynes into that very room made him realise more than imagination could what she had gone through. Then she was a stout housewife, slightly care-worn, but cheerful, hopeful of the future if even things were not as bright as she wished. Today she was a defeated woman — in her eyes a hunted look which she no longer took the trouble to disguise, sustained merely by the necessity to keep the wheels of her business going. And Haynes felt deeply sorry for her; and felt, too, that by talking and laughing with Benoit he was doing Mrs. Rouse a great wrong; and was aware that it was stupid of him to feel that way; but could never entirely rid himself of the feeling whenever he stood face to face with Mrs. Rouse.
butler_imago_Imago	1989	The family would stay with us until we were adults, but then it would leave us on the ship. No more forests or rivers. No more wildness filled with things I had not yet tasted. The planet itself was like one of my parents. 1 would leave it, and I would gain nothing. No, that wasn’t true. I would gain mates. Eventually. Perhaps. Nikanj would do all it could to get the mates. There were young Humans bom and raised on the ship because there had been so few salvageable Humans left after their war and their resulting disease and atmospheric disturbances. There had not been enough for a good trade. Also most of those who wanted to return to Earth had been allowed to return. That left the Toaht Oankali—those who wanted to trade and to leave with the ship—too few Human mates. They had been breeding more Humans as well as accepting violent ones from Earth. But even so, there were not enough for everyone who wanted them. Not yet. How likely would the Toaht be to let me mate with even one? 1 shook my head. “Don’t desert me, Ooan.” It focused on me, its manner questioning. “You know I won’t.” “I won’t go to Chkahichdahk.
christie_sleeping_murder_Sleeping_Murder	1976	They're good people. They'll love her for Megan's sake. Megan—Megan, how I wish you were here.... It's the best way ... No scandal... The best way for the child. I can't go on. Not year after year. I must take the short way out. Gwennie will never know anything about all this. She'll never know her father was a murderer.... Tears blinded Gwenda's eyes. She looked across at Giles, sitting opposite her. But Giles's eyes were riveted on the opposite corner. Aware of Gwenda's scrutiny, he motioned faintly with his head. Their fellow passenger was reading an evening paper. On the outside of it, clearly presented to their view, was a melodramatic caption— WHO WERE THE MEN IN HER LIFE? Slowly, Gwenda nodded her head. She looked down again at the diary. There was someone—I know there was someone— The Men in Her Life Miss Marple crossed Sea Parade and walked along Fore Street, turning up the hill by the arcade. The shops here were the old-fashioned ones. A wool and art needlework shop, a confectioner, a Victorian-looking Ladies' Outfitter and Draper and others of the same kind. Miss Marple looked in at the window of the art needlework shop.
kingsolver_the_poisonwood_bible_The_Poisonwood_Bible	1999	The woman with the child on her hip kept her back turned, tending to the food. “And Lot went out and spake unto those that were worthy’- Now Father was using his gentler, simmering-down tone. “And Lot said unto them, ‘ Upl Get ye out from this place of darkness! Arise and come forward into a brighter land!’ “O Lord, let us pray,” he concluded, landing abruptly back down on earth. “Lord, grant that the worthy among us here shall rise above wickedness and come out of the darkness into the wondrous light of our Floly Father. Amen.” All faces were still set on my father, as if they all were shiny, dark plants and his red head was the sun. But their expressions had fallen in slow motion from joy to confusion to dismay. Now, as the spell broke, people began to mutter and move about. A few women lifted up their wraparound sarongs and tied them in front, to cover their breasts. Others gathered up their bare-bottomed children and moved out into the darkness. I guess they were going home to bed without any supper. The air above our heads grew perfectly quiet. There was not a peep to be heard but katydid noises outside in the deep, black night.
hughes_not_without_laughter_Not_Without_Laughter	1930	“But never mind,” her mother went on, “Is gwine see Mr. John Frank tomorrow an’ see can’t I borry a little mo’ money on this mortgage we’s got with him.” So on Monday morning the old lady left her washing and went uptown to the office of the money-lender, but the clerk there said Mr. Frank had gone to Chicago and would not be back for two weeks. There was nothing the clerk could do about it, since he himself could not lend money. That afternoon Annjee sat up in bed and wrote a long letter to Harriett, telling her of their troubles, and before she sealed it, Sandy saw his mother slip into the envelope the three one-dollar bills that she had been guarding under her pillow. “There goes your Santa Claus,” she said to her son, “but maybe Harriett’s hungry. And you don’t want Aunt Harrie to be hungry, do you?” “No’m,” Sandy said. The grey days passed and Annjee was able to get up and sit beside the kitchen-stove while her mother ironed. Every afternoon Sandy went downtown to look at the shop windows, gay with Christmas things. And he would stand and stare at the Golden Flyer sleds in Edmondsons hardware-shop.
banville_the_book_of_evidence_The_Book_of_Evidence	1989	It was one of the mad widow’s catchphrases. Suddenly everything was sad and grey and waste. Daphne put her face against my shoulder and began to weep silently. I will always remember those children’s voices. It was a strange encounter, never to be repeated. I brood on it now, not for the obvious reasons, but because it puzzles me. The act itself, the troilism, was not so remarkable: in those days everyone was doing that sort of thing. No, what struck me then, and strikes me still, is the curious passiveness of my role in that afternoon’s doings. I was the man among the three of us, yet I felt that it was I who was being softly, irresistibly penetrated. The wise will say that I was only the link along which the two of them had negotiated their way, hand over hand, into each other’s arms. It may be true, but it is not of much significance, and certainly not the central thing. I could not rid myself of the feeling that a rite was being performed, in which Anna Behrens was the priestess and Daphne the sacrificial offering, while I was a mere prop. They wielded me like a stone phallus, bowing and writhing about me, with incantatory sighs. They were -
butler_seed_to_harvest_Patternmaster	1976	If we aren't linked, one of us is liable to get killed, without doing the other any good at all." "Amber, no... !" "Link. Now!" He linked, furious with her, half hating her, feeling no gratitude at all. Pride. He was trying to save her life. He stood up to meet Coransee and his people. Amber stood next to him, close enough to make Coransee aware that his arrival had not caused her to change sides. She was the one Coransee spoke to as he dismounted. He came up to them, but his people stayed back, still mounted, apparently watching for Clayarks. "I don't suppose you persuaded him to submit." "I didn't try." "And you're staying with him. I thought you were brighter than that." "No, you thought I was more frightened of you than that. You were mistaken." He turned away from her with a sound of annoyance. "Teray... do you really want to die here?" "I'll either die here or I'll go on to Forsyth. Nothing is going to get me to go back to Redhill with you." Coransee frowned. "What did you expea to find in Forsyth, anyway?"
villarreal_pocho_Pocho	1959	Glad that he would be raised in America, and sad for the loss of what to him would be a release from a life that was now dull routine. Only through his books did he occasionally break the monotony, but the daydreams they gave rise to were no longer enough. He was a man, for all his years, he refused to accept sexual satisfaction as the sublime effort of life. There must be more to it than just that. He was aware of his need for Zelda, but did not join his friends in every orgy, because once that bodily function was taken care of, he again felt a dissatisfaction with his existence, and so, instead, he began to spend more time away from them and from home. In his wanderings, usually into the neighboring San Jose, only Ricky sometimes accompanied him. His father was still unyielding in his old-country ideas, and did not allow him to keep late hours. The same frustration that came from what he considered an unjustly restricted life, which had made him spend more time with his friends, now made him stay out later every night. The first time it happened, his father was waiting for him. “It is late,” he said. “Where have you been?” “Walking, Papd.”
wilson_the_able_mclaughlins_gutenberg_59845-0_The_Able_McLaughlins	1924	Some of them had been annoyed at times by her self-reliance, her full trust in her own powers, and were not exactly sorry to hear of this affair which must “set her down a notch.” But not a notch down would she go! Her pride, it appeared, was too strong for even this blow. The way she talked about her expectations scandalized the righteous. Maggie Stewart said one would have supposed Wully had waited ten years for that baby. It had been bad enough in the beginning, but after the child was born it grew out of all bounds. Her husband’s younger sister, Janet, a woman still of childbearing age, came to remonstrate with her. For the sake of the other young people in the community, to say nothing of her own family of half-grown boys and girls, she really ought to moderate her raptures somewhat. She was just encouraging them in wrongdoing! But Isobel replied simply that since she had always had to be painfully modest in praising her own children, she was going to say exactly what she thought about this grandchild. She philosophized shamelessly about the privileges of grandmothers. And, after all, if she was his own grandmother who was saying it, Janet would have to acknowledge that the baby was an unusually fine child.
butler_adulthood_rites_Adulthood_Rites	1988	And this kid might not even live to grow up. Or he might grow up and grow tentacles all over. So what if he looks good now. Doesn’t mean a thing.” “And 111 tell you something else,” Akin’s captor put in. “Our chances, any man’s chances of seeing that kid grow up are rat shit. The worms are going to find him sooner or later, dead or alive. And the village they find him in is fucked.” Someone else agreed. “The only way is to get rid of him fast and get out of the area. Let someone else worry about how to hold him and how not to wind up dead or worse.” Akin went out of the shelter, found a place to relieve himself and another place—a clearing where one of the larger trees had recendy fallen—where the rain fell heavily enough for him to wash himself and to catch enough water to satisfy his thirst. The men did not stop him, but one of them watched him. When he reentered the shelter, wet and glistening, carrying broad, flat wild banana leaves to sleep on, the men all stared at him. “Whatever it is,” one of them said, “it isn’t as Human as we thought.
golden_after_After	2006	And I was sure that Jimmy knew I was involved, that when he looked at me he could see what I’d done. It was my senior year. One night over dinner Jimmy started talking about the robberies, saying what he’d do if somebody tried to rob him, how he’d beat the crap out of them. ‘Don’t you think a man or woman’s got a right to defend themselves, Carson?’ he asked me. “He damn near gave a sermon, telling me that whoever was robbing those people wasn’t just stealing money but their peace of mind. Told me the victims would have flashbacks, would be afraid to go out of their houses or go to the store. ‘I’m just giving you something to think about, that’s all. You been staying out awful late recently. You sure you ain’t got something you want to tell me, your mama? The police?’ he asked me. My mother was sitting at the dinner table between us and she kept looking at me and looking at him. Each time she looked at me after looking at him there was more surprise and more questions in her eyes. I wondered if he’d been in my room, looking through my drawers. Maybe he found those things I’d kept.
butler_kindred_Kindred	1979	At that moment, I couldn’t manage any pride at all. I leaned back against him, desperate for any support I could find, and closed my eyes. He didn’t say anything more for a long while—not until we were nearing the house. Then, “You awake, Dana?” I sat straight. “Yes.” “You’re going to get the cowhide,” he said. “You know that.” Somehow, I hadn’t known. His gentleness had lulled me. Now the thought of being hurt even more terrified me. The whip, again. “No!” Without thinking about it or intending to do it, I threw one leg over and slid from the horse. My side hurt, my mouth hurt, my face was still bleeding, but none of that was as bad as the whip. I ran toward the distant trees. Rufus caught me easily and held me, cursing me, hurting me. “You take your whipping!” he hissed. “The more you fight, the more he’ll hurt you.” He? Was Weylin to whip me, then, or the overseer, Edwards? “Act like you’ve got some sense!” demanded Rufus as I struggled. What I acted like was a wild woman.
macinnes_double_image_The_Double_Image	1966	“We’re leaving tomorrow for Washington. Say, you got this champagne iced!” “Four hours, courtesy of the barman at my hotel.” And a nice-sized tip. “Then it’s just right for drinking. Sue, get some glasses— sure, these will do, over on the table.” Craig noticed that a little dining table, places for three, flowers, candles and all, had been set up near the window of the sitting-room. “We thought we’d have supper here, easier for talking, less waste of time,” George said. “And we are having a few friends drop in here afterwards. Just some men who have been stationed at one time or another in Moscow.” “They belong to the I-Was-There Club,” Sue said cheerfully. She had quite recovered. She noticed the expression on her brother’s face. “I’m sorry, John; we had to see them tonight— but you know how it is. There really is quite a bond between men who have lived through the same tensions—” “A bond of curiosity,” George said drily. “They want to hear the latest inside gossip and informed guesses.” “Veterans of Foreign Peace?” Craig suggested.
cleage_i_wish_i_had_a_red_dress_I_Wish_I_Had_A_Red_Dress	2001	“Dolly would only drink champagne.” Geneva nodded. “So a couple of people brought their scrapbooks, and when we started going through them, we realized we couldn’t remember everybody’s name anymore.” Lynette harrumphed at that. “Which is no great tragedy,” she said. “I didn’t remember most of their names back then either!” “But 1 did,” Geneva said gently. “And I want to again. What good is a photograph if you can’t remember who’s in it?” “Anybody in here look familiar to you?” Lynette turned toward me. “I’m sorry,” I said. “I think this was before my time.” They looked startled, and then they laughed softly together. “What?” “Nothing, dear,” Geneva said. “It’s just that sometimes we forget how old we are.” “These photographs ought to remind us,” Lynette grumbled. “If you stop complaining,” Geneva said. “I’ll make you a fresh pot of coffee.” Lynette’s eyes lit up. “Done! I’ll be quiet as a mouse.” “How about you, dear?” Gen said to me. “Will you join us for a cup?”
egan_a_visit_from_the_goon_squad_A_Visit_From_the_Goon_Squad	2011	Still, he swims there a lot, especially when he’s bummed or tense or in a fight with Sasha. “You must’ve grown up swimming,” he said when he first heard you were from Florida, and you said, Of course. But the truth is you’ve never liked the water—something only Sasha knows about you. You lurch from the steps to the other end of the fire escape platform, where a window looks into the little alcove where Bix’s computer lives. Bix is in front of it, dreadlocks thick as cigars, typing messages to other graduate students that they’ll read on their computers, and reading messages they send back. According to Bix, this computer-message-sending is going to be huge—way beyond the telephone. He’s big on predicting the future, and you haven’t really challenged him—maybe because he’s older, maybe because he’s black. Bix jumps at the sight of you looming outside his window in your baggy jeans and football jersey, which you’ve taken to wearing again, for some reason. “Shit, Rob,” he says, “what are you doing out there?” “Watching you.” ‘You’ve got Lizzie all stressed-out.” «T? 77 1 m sorry.
mcpherson_elbow_room_Elbow_Room	1978	The cop looks worshipful. An elderly woman, easing heavy shopping bags to the floor, inquires reverently into the stock of religious materials. But this is only a ploy. Once answers are forthcoming, she confesses her fear that the earth has become peopled by the alien occupants of flying saucers. She looks at the shopgirl imploringly. A student comes looking for esoteric titles. He stands at attention by the counter and rattles them off. Then he lingers there, volunteering, for some reason, unabashed insights into the sources of his frustrations. The girl listens carefully. She listens to all of them. But she smiles in such a secret way that they cannot be sure she has heard. Most people buy books to pay her for her time. I buy books so 226 ELBOW ROOM I can stand at the counter and get a closer inspection of her mystery. This time I am sure her face is the source of all this interest. It is a free face, a fresh face. In it I can see no servitude to the expressions of faces I have seen before. Hers is a smile completely unaware of any predecessor. It derives entirely from within itself. Her mystery, I think, is an awareness of this liberation from the familiar. But not even her smile seems conscious of this.
butler_seed_to_harvest_Wild_Seed	1980	Perhaps Anyanwu spoke to them. For once, Doro did not care. He knew he was no longer fearsome to them; he was only another of Anyanwu's lovers. How long had it been since he was only someone's lover? He could not remember. He went away now and then to take care of his businesses, put in an appearance at one of his nearer settlements. "Bring this body back to me as long as you can," Anyanwu would tell him. "There cannot be two as perfect as this." He would laugh and promise her nothing. Who knew what punishment he might have to inflict, what madman he might have to subdue, what stupid, stubborn politician, businessman, planter, or other fool he might have to remove? Also, wearing a black body in country where blacks were under constant obligation to prove they had rights to even limited freedom was a hindrance. He traveled with one of his older white sons, Frank Winston, whose fine old Virginia family had belonged to Doro since Doro brought it from England 135 years before. The man could be as distinguished and aristocratic or as timid and naive as he chose to be, as Doro ordered him to be. He had no inborn strangeness great enough to qualify him as good breeding stock.
brooks_march_March	2006	As we contemplated the teachings to be drawn from the greatest life ever lived, the voice without was crying up the lot in hand: two children without the mother, who had been kidnapped therefrom. My thoughts flew to the verse “suffer the little children to come unto me,” and had I then the means, I would have marched out and bought those children their freedom. What was most striking to me was that no one else in the church seemed to mark what was going on without, and when the pastor asked for subscriptions to aid in sending the scriptures into Africa, I could bear this no longer, but stood in my place and asked how it was that the Good News could not be sent more cheaply to the beings on the auction block next door? This was greeted with hisses and tuttings and a cold request that I leave, which I did, speedily and without regret. Outside, the two children had already been sold, and bidding was vigorous for a fit-looking man of about thirty. The auctioneer cried out that the man was a free black, now put up for sale for nonpayment of his city taxes. The man was weeping and I did not wonder at it. How intolerable to have once earned freedom and then to have it snatched away.
taylor_a_summons_for_memphis_A_Summons_to_Memphis	1987	It was never described as being current. And I never had any illusion about its reality, of course, which made it somehow seem the more embarrassing. While my sisters made me listen to these confidences we would look into each other’s eyes and we would laugh as merrily as if there were perfect understanding between us. I knew always that the affair referred to was pure fantasy but I do not know even now whether or not they knew I knew. I knew also, moreover, and knew almost as a certainty —as I have said already—that during their girlhood romances these two sisters of mine had remained virgins. Their romances had been of the most old-fashioned kind and would have been consummated only in the marriage bed. This certainty—or near certainty—made all the talk of their lurid, nonexistent, middle-aged love affairs at once more laughable and more painful to me. On some occasions, when well past fifty, one or the other of the two would introduce me to a male acquaintance and ask that question: What sort of husband did I think he would make for her? And always with the same senseless admonition: “Of course you must not tell Father about him!” And then straightway I would hear Father being told about the very same suitor.
steel_the_gift_The_Gift	1994	"It doesn't matter," she said, not convincing him or herself. "We'll do it again sometime." But she didn't sound as though she meant it. "Will you? I'd really like that. I miss your dinners." They had all lost weight that year. It had been a rough seven months for all of them, and it showed. John had aged, and Liz looked gaunt and unhappy, particularly now that she knew for sure there would never be another baby. 422 Danitllt Stal He went into the bathroom and put his pajamas on then, and he smelled clean and looked neat when he returned to lie beside her. But she had her back to him, and everything about her felt rigid and unhappy. "Liz?" he asked in the darkened room. "Do you suppose you'll ever forgive me?" 'There's nothing to forgive. You didn't do anything." Her voice sounded as dead as he felt, and they both looked it. "Maybe if we had asked the doctor to come that night ... If I hadn't told you it was just a cold . . ." “Dr. Stone says it wouldn't have made any difference." But she didn't sound as though she believed it.
stafford_the_collected_stories_of_jean_stafford_The_Collected_Stories_of_Jean_Stafford	1970	asked Maisie. “Because he doesn’t like the moon.” Luster was his dog, a golden retriever. They drove away then in the direction of Left Hand Canyon. I suppose eventually I went to sleep.) Forgetting now that Ernie Wharton’s facts were immediate and that, because he had been united with the dead boy in a secret order, his was the right to tell the tale and to lead the speculation—forgetting this, the art students shrilly turned to the girl in Oxford glasses. Had he been strange, they asked her, had he seemed cracked? “He was like everybody else,” she said, “like all pre-meds. You know, a little high-hat the way they all are because they know those six-dollar words.” She did not like to speak ill of the dead, she said, but, frankly, Bernard had been the world’s worst dancer and, as she looked back on it, she thought he had probably been tight. Not that that made any difference, she quickly added, because she was broad-minded, but it might throw some light on his suicide. Maybe he was drunk this morning. It was unlikely, she supposed, that he would have been drinking at eight-thirty in the morning.
oates_blonde_Blonde	2001	“Marilyn Monroe” he’d taken that day would become the most famous, or infamous, calendar nudes in history. For which the model would earn fifty dollars, and millions of dollars would be earned by others. By men. And the soles of my feet exposed. Behind the tattered Chinese screen, Norma Jeane fumbled to dress quickly. Ninety minutes had passed in a drugged dream. Her head throbbed with pain confused with traffic outside on Hollywood Boulevard, the stink of exhaust. Her breasts ached with a ghostly milk-to-be-sucked. If I’d had a baby with Bucky Glazer. Now I would be safe. She heard Otto talking to someone. He’d made a telephone call, probably. Laughing softly. Now the lights were out, the frayed crimson velvet cloth carelessly folded up and shoved onto a shelf, the used rolls of film ready to be developed. Norma Jeane wanted only to be gone from Otto Ose. Waking from her dreamy trance beneath the blinding lights she’d seen in the photographer’s skull face a gloating satisfaction that had nothing to do with her. She’d heard in his elated voice a happiness that had nothing to do with her. Not humiliated now, baring myself to a man who doesn’t love me. If I’d had a baby.
slim_trick_baby_Trick_Baby	1967	This is a free country. I got a right to—” The punk sucker-punched me hard in my right cheek bone. The room reeled. I fell to the floor next to the counter. I held my hand against my cheek and looked up at him. He reached into his pocket. I heard a metallic click and saw the wicked gleam of the switchblade in his hand. His eyes were spinning in his head. He bent over toward me. I rolled away toward the door and threw my feet up to keep him from gutting me. The door opened and a pair of khakied legs stepped across me. It was a young soldier. He was between me and the shiv man. The soldier looked down curiously at me. I scooted backward through the closing door to the sidewalk. I got to my feet and raced down Forty-third Street. I heard pounding feet behind me. I looked back. The whole pack was running toward me. I hollered as loud as I could, “I’m a Nigger! I’m a Nigger! I’m a Nigger!” I turned into the el station. I threw a handful of coins across the fare collector’s counter. I raced up the stairs to the train platform. A Jackson Park el was closing its doors.
wright_the_outsider_The_Outsider	1953	Despite this, his sensibilities had not been repressed by God’s fearful negations as represented by his mother; indeed, his sense of life had been so heightened that desire boiled in him to a degree that made him afraid. Afraid of what? Nothing exacdy, precisely . . . And this constituted his sense of dread. As he neared his mother’s rooming house, he could already feel the form of her indictment, could divine the morally charged words she would hurl at him. And he knew that his reaction would be one of sullen and guilty anger. Why, then, was he going to see her? Because he really wanted her to rail at him, denounce him, and he would suffer, feel his hurt again, and, in doing so, would know intuitively that somewhere in the depths of his raw wound lay the blood of his salvation or the pus of his disaster. This obscure knowledge had stayed his finger on the trigger of the gun whose barrel had touched his temple this morning . . . He entered a dilapidated building, went down a dark hallway and tapped upon a door. Sounds of muffled movement came to him; the door opened and framed his mother’s solemnly lined face, the white hair pulled severely back from a wide forehead, a gnarled right hand holding a woolen shawl about stooped shoulders.
chase_riboud_hottentot_venus_Hottentot_Venus	2003	—Could you specify who you mean? —I mean the Hottentot woman— —Her real name, please. —Sarah Baartman, sir. —Could you point out to the Court her person? —She’s sitting over there. (Hepointed at mej —And you refused to exhibit her? —How could I in good conscience exhibit a live human being in an animal museum, no matter how . . . extraordinary. —Thank you, Mr. Bullock. You are dismissed. —So your lordship may perceive that this unfortunate creature was offered to William Bullock for sale, which is sufficient proof that she is a slave and not a free agent, continued the solicitor general, his white wig bobbing as he paced. —I now introduce, he continued, the affidavits of Mr. Babington, Mr. Macauley and Mr. Van Wageninge, all illustrious members of the African Institution, a society the object of which was to abolish slavery in Great Britain and, now that that great cause is accomplished, is to meliorate the conditions of the Africans. Upon learning of the disgraceful exhibition of this female, these gentlemen went to see her and found her exhibited in such a disgraceful and disgusting manner, I will forbear going into the particulars ... I now read to the Court their sworn affidavits, and call to the stand Mr. Macauley.
jones_an_american_marriage_An_American_Marriage	2018	He took the bags from my arms as though it were the most natural thing in the world, leaving me standing there with nothing. “Dre is on his way to get you,” I said, following Roy to the kitchen. “He left today.” “I know,” he said, the bag of food between us like a truce. “It wasn’t Dre I wanted to talk to.” I rubbed my arms to quiet the tingling as he set the bag down on the counter and then spun toward me and spread his arms, grinning, showing the dark space in the bottom of his smile. “You don’t have love for a brother? I went through a lot of trouble to get here. Don’t give me that Christian side hug. I want the real thing.” I walked toward him on legs that didn’t feel like my own. He closed his arms around me, and I knew that this was my husband, not some sleight of mind. This was Roy Othaniel Hamilton. He was bigger now than when he lived in this house, his body harder and more muscular, but I recognized his energy, almost on the verge of action. Unaware of his own strength, he grabbed me so hard that I felt a little dizzy.
nwapa_efuru_Efuru	1966	Now, the shooting of the cannon did not only announce the death of a great man, but also announced that the great man's ancestors had dealings with the white men, who dealt in slaves. At last Nwosu and the fisherman saw the waters of the blue lake mingling beautifully, majestically, and calmly with the brown waters of the Great River. The spot could be very calm or very rough, depending on the mood of Uhamiri, the owner of the lake, and Okita, the owner of the Great River. The two were supposed to be husband and wife, but they governed different domains and nearly always quarrelled. Nobody knew the cause or nature of their constant quarrels. ‘We have arrived, Ogbuide, Ezenwanyi,’ the fisherman greeted Uhamiri the owner of the lake. And as he said this, he took some water with his hand, washed his face, and drank again and again. ‘Uhmiri, the most beautiful of women, your children have arrived safely, we are grateful to you,’ Nwosu said as he washed his face and drank some water. They paddled on with more vigour now that they were reaching home. ‘By the time the sun is here,’ Nwosu said and pointing upwards to indicate where he meant, ‘we shall get home.’
hemon_the_lazarus_project_The_Lazarus_Project	2006	In Grand Rapids, Michigan, she reads, Judge Alfred Wolcott of the circuit bench died of apoplexy this afternoon, five minutes after he was stricken. His wife, a devout Christian Scientist, refuses to admit he is dead. Three different physicians have pronounced his life extinct, but Mrs. Wolcott maintains that they are in error. I am running out of life, Olga thinks. What am I going to do? What is there without life? Lazarus used to work in the corner by the window, next to Greg Heller, packing eggs without a word all day. He worked so hard Heller often had to tell him to slow down. Only at the end of the shift would he sometimes jabber in as much English as he knew, mixed with strange foreign words. He never mentioned anarchism, Heller said, except once: Emma Goldman, the anarchist queen, was coming to Chicago to speak, and Lazarus tried to talk Heller into going with him to hear her—which Heller rejected in disgust. “The rich have all the money. I have none. You have none,” Lazarus said, waving his arms, his eyes shining. Heller told him to keep busy and he would earn some. Mr. Eichgreen confirmed that Lazarus was a good worker; he never talked anarchism to him.
davis_honey_in_the_horn_Honey_in_the_Horn	1936	A nice sprouting of feathers would have made a decenter looking ensemble, but only until their first mealtime. Red blended perfectly with what they dived into and smeared themselves with. They fed on, going deeper, and when one of them got too full he staggered heavily to one side, vomited, and came back to fill up again. A buzzard does not eat out of any desire to satisfy hunger, seemingly. He consumes food for the simple pleasure of getting it down, with possibly the extra pleasure of knowing that when he has got through with it nothing else will be able to use it. There are only two divisions of North American animals that can stand in the same light with the buzzard for plain, dull, senseless gluttony. The Canadian wolverene can; he will tear up and befoul with urine any food that he hasn’t got room for himself. The other division is a little too tony to bother with spoiling mere food, and that is the one people belong to. Clay had shown signs of it, lying a hanging onto Wade Shiveley; Luce had, in wanting him to. The horse-trader was plastered with tokens of membership, and the Indian boy had been sprouting them. The hay-cutters had left Clay so he could do his mourning by the grave alone.
morrison_song_of_solomon_*Song_of_Solomon	1977	It was difficult but not impossible for Mr. Solomon to pull him away. He left cursing Milkman, but his fervor was gone. Milkman backed up against the counter, waiting to see if anybody else was going to jump him. When it looked as if no one was, and when the people were drifting outside to watch Saul scuffling and cursing at the men pulling him away, he slumped a little and wiped his face. When the entire store save for the owner was empty, Milkman hurled the broken bottle into a comer. It careened by the cooler and bounced off the wall before splintering on the floor. He walked outside, still panting, and looked around. Four older men still sat on the porch, as though nothing had happened. Blood was streaming down Milkman’s face, but it had dried on his hand. He kicked at a white hen and sat down on the top step, wiping the blood with his handkerchief. Three young women with nothing in their hands stood in the road looking at him. Their eyes were wide but noncommittal. Children joined them, circling the women like birds. Nobody said anything. Even the four men on the porch were quiet. Nobody came toward him, offered him a cigarette or a glass of water. Only the children and the hens walked around.
dumaurier_mary_anne_Mary_Anne	1954	“With my parents.” “What are your parents?” “My father was a gentleman.” “With whom do you live now?” “With my sister.” “Where do you live?” “In Chelsea.” “In lodgings or as housekeepers?” “Housekeepers.” “Any profession?” “If a boarding-school be a profession.” “Who lived with Mrs. Clarke at Craven Place.” “Her husband, when I first knew her.” “Who lived with her afterwards?” “His Royal Highness the Duke of York.” “Have you known any other man live with her?” “Not to my knowledge.” “Are you related to her?” “My brother is married to her sister.” “What was her husband?” “I always understood he was a man of fortune.” “Did you live with her at Tavistock Place?” “I never lived with her at all.” “Did you never sleep in the house?” “Yes, occasionally.” “You took her to be a modest, decent woman, whilst she lived in Tavistock Place?” “She lived with her mother, I knew nothing to the contrary.” The witness was now in tears.
seton_katherine_Katherine	1954	The crowd, which had been restive, quieted and watched with delight as the two resplendent Plantagenets ran the final course against each other. Here was no blind unruly jousting, but an elegant deed of arms with each fine point of technique observed. The ceremonious bowing of the helmeted heads as the herald’s trumpet sounded, the simultaneous start fron the lines drawn at either end of the lists, the lances held precisely horizontal, the control over the snorting destriers who were always liable to swerve, tie shivering impact of the lances square on the opposing shields and the final neat thrust sidewards of Lancaster’s lance, which dexterously knocked the helmet up and off Lionel’s head, where it dangled by the lacings from the gorget. “Splendid, splendid!” cried the King, proud of his sons. John and Lionel came riding up to their father’s loge and bowed to him while the heralds, once more taking the center of the field, proclaimed that the great tournament in honor of St. George had ended in a draw. The crowd groaned with disappointment. But, continued the heralds, the pri ses w ould be given anyway by lot to night at the Feast of the Garter and the special prize for the knight adjudged to have been most worthy in the tournament would also be presented then. “Lancaster!
gabaldon_outlander_Outlander	1991	“Have you anything to say to me now, Madam?” he demanded. “Your wig is crooked,” I said, and closed my eyes again. 13 A Marriage Is Announced Isat at a table in the taproom below, gazing into a cup of milk and fighting off waves of nausea. Dougal had taken one look at my face as I came downstairs, supported by the beefy young corporal, and strode purposefully past me, up the stairs to Randall’s room. The floors and doors of the inn were stout and well constructed, but I could still hear the sound of raised voices upstairs. I raised the cup of milk, but my hands were still shaking too badly to drink it. I was gradually recovering from the physical effects of the blow, but not from the shock of it. I knew the man was not my husband, but the resemblance was so strong and my habits so ingrained, that I had been half-inclined to trust him, and had spoken to him as I would have to Frank, expecting civility, if not active sympathy. To have those feelings abruptly turned inside out by his vicious attack was what was making me ill now. Ill, and frightened as well. I had seen his eyes as he crouched next to me on the floor.
li_the_vagrants_The_Vagrants	2009	“You want to run away from me now?” the old man said. “You think I’m talking nonsense? Let me tell you: You could learn all the characters in the dictionary, and write the most spectacular articles in the world. You could be more learned than Confucius—do you know who Confucius was? Well, how could one expect you to learn anything from school these days? In any case, you could be as knowledgeable as a scholar, but still you could be more ignorant than an illiterate peasant or a beggar. Do you understand?” Tong shook his head. “What I’m saying is this”—the old man hit his cane on the ground—“you don’t get real intelligence and wisdom from textbooks. As far as I can tell, you may as well run away from your stupid teacher who stuffs your brain with nothing but lard.” Tong smiled in spite of himself. “Now, if you want to be a good and useful human being, help me get this letter to the mailbox.” Tong accepted the letter from the old man and was surprised by its weight. He glanced at the envelope, which bore several stamps. “No peeking!” the old man shouted, and then changed his mind and asked Tong to hand the letter back.
johnston_shadows_on_our_skin_Shadows_on_our_Skin	1977	‘Oh, I know.’ She smiled at him. ‘It’s very short. I like it. I’d like more of it.’ ‘That’s the way it came into my mind.’ ‘It’s nice. A sort of picture really.’ I ‘It’s a present for you.’ He blushed and turned quickly to look out of the window. ‘I... mean ... I’ll write it down and give it to you .. . if... well, you know.’ [‘I would like that very much, Joe. No one has ever given me such a lovely present before.’ ‘Ah, go on.’ The top of a double-decker bus is a beautiful place to be. You rock rather than roll along, getting a giraffe’s-eye view into other people’s lives and over the straggling hedges that normally hide the countryside from sight. At the checkpoint before the border a soldier clattered up the stairs, his gun crooked into his elbow. Kathleen opened the shopping bag and held it out towards him. He rummaged. ‘Ta love.’ He looked at Joe and grinned. ‘Got any dangerous weapons on you, mate?’ Joe shook his head. ‘Lost your tongue?’ ‘No.’
lecarre_tinker_tailor_soldier_spy_Tinker,_Tailor,_Soldier,_Spy	1974	“Mr. Jefferson,” said Millie primly, “is run on a basis of trust.” That was the nearest she came to expressing her disapproval of Smiley, or her devotion to Christian ethics. Downstairs again, she showed him the switches that controlled the system. An extra switch was fitted in each finger panel. Any time Jefferson or one of the boys, as she put it, wanted to go over to record, he had only to get up and turn down the left-hand light switch. From then on, the system was voice-activated; that is to say, the tape deck did not turn unless somebody was speaking. “And where are you while all this goes on, Millie?” She remained downstairs, she said, as if that were a woman’s place. Smiley was pulling open cupboards, lockers, walking from room to room. Then back to the scullery again, with its view to the canal. Taking out a pocket torch, he signalled one flash into the darkness of the garden. “What are the safety procedures?” Smiley asked as he thoughtfully fingered the end light switch by the drawing-room door. Her reply came in a liturgical monotone. “Two full milk bottles on the doorstep, you may come in and all’s well.
walker_meridian_Meridian	1976	“Um hum,” she would nod vaguely at Eddie’s dream. At the restaurant he worked as a waiter and sometimes short-order cook—hard work, little pay. And yet he was always patient and gentle with her, protective. If he worried he kept it from her, justifying his silence by her “condition.” The worries he was unable to hide were about small things that bothered him: the ironing of his clothes, and even her own, which she did not do nearly as well as his mother (who, finally, in the last stages of her daughter-in-law’s pregnancy, began to collect their dirty clothes each Wednesday to bring them back on Friday stainless and pale from bleach); the cooking, which she was too queasy to do at all; and the sex, which she did not seem (he said) interested in. One night as he climbed over her—because he could only make love to her by beginning his assault from her left side—he said: “And tonight, please, open your legs all the way.” “What do you mean, open my legs?” she asked. “I have to fight to get your legs open; you know that as well as I do.
jones_silver_sparrow_Silver_Sparrow	2011	She extended her hand toward my head. “Can I?” My hand made its way to my face again. It smelled like her hair, sweet with oil sheen. I looked up at her hand, which hovered right above my head like I was a dog she wasn’t sure she should pet. “Yes,” I said, softly. “You can touch it.” The silver girl pushed her fingers into my scalp, exploring with her fingernails. “What’s that? Feels like a ridge.” “That’s where my mama sewed in the weft. She’s a cosmetologist.” I started overexplaining, telling her that this new process was technically called “hair integration,” but for short, people called it a weave, and that my mother was one of only twenty hairdressers in the city who knew how to do it. I bragged that it was the next big thing. I jabbered on as her careful hands explored my whole head. Passersby, even the other silver girls, noticed and turned toward each other to talk about us. Old people gave a quick look and swept their eyes away the way they do when they catch people kissing on the MARTA train. It was excruciating, really, imagining the feel of my synthetic hair to her real hands.
deveraux_a_knight_in_shining_armor_A_Knight_in_Shining_Armor	1989	“Come inside, darling,” she purred, her hands all over him. “I feel we already know one another. After all, our ancestors were very friendly. Who are we to be any different?” She ushered him inside, leaving Dougless with a half-dozen or so suitcases at her feet. “Who are we to be any different?” she mocked in a falsetto voice as she paid the cab driver. It didn’t take Dougless five minutes to learn that she was not considered a houseguest but a servant, and not a very welcome one at that. A man ushered her—Dougless carrying her own suitcases—to a small, barren, cold room not far from the kitchen. Feeling like a governess in a gothic, neither servant nor family, she unpacked and hung her clothes in a grubby little wardrobe. Looking about the ugly little room, she felt martyred. Here she was doing this to help some guy save his life and his family name and she was never even going to be able to tell anyone about it. She left the room and went into the kitchen to find the big room empty, but tea for two had been set up at one end of the worktable. “There you are,” said a large woman with graying hair.
wein_code_name_verity_Code_Name_Verity	2012	A Polish pilot rammed a German plane over Warsaw on the first day of the war! The Soviet pilots do it too—same word in Russian. Taran. It is the best way to stop a pilotless plane in the air,” Felicyta said. “Before it reaches a target, when it is still over sea or open country, not over London or Southampton. That is what the Royal Air Force does with their Tempests.” “But they’re armed!” I insisted. “You do not need to be armed for taran," Felicyta said. “You do not need guns to ram another aircraft.” “She’s right,” Maddie said. “When our lads come up behind a flying bomb and fire at it, they have to fly into the explosion. Absolutely no fun. But if you tip the bomb with your wing before it’s over London, it just dives into a field and there’s no mess.” I just couldn’t believe Celia would try such a trick, her first time in a Tempest. But, as we all kept saying, we didn’t really know her. “Would you do it, Maddie?” I asked. She shook her head slowly. It was more of an 1 don’t know than a no.
atta_everything_good_will_come_Everything_Good_Will_Come	2005	In good homes, they could be treated like distant cousins; in bad homes, they could be deprived of food, or beaten. I had more than once suggested that they were a few degrees separated from blacks in old Mississippi and in apartheid South Africa. “But that’s racism,” someone would say. Pierre began to chop the okras. I ground the peppers and onions. Later he washed and cut the meat and I braised it. We worked together, cutting and frying, stirring and pouring. My eyes streamed from pepper and palm oil fumes settled in my braids. Steam scalded my wrists. Three hours later, we’d finished four separate stews. Pierre scooped them into Tupperware containers and placed them in the freezer. I handed him a plate of lunch and decided to have a wash. Behind our bathroom door, we kept a drum of water. I filled my bathing bucket and topped it up with boiling water from a kettle. But for the bump under my belly button, my body was the same as it was before I became pregnant. I’d finished soaping myself when the electricity generator next door began to roar. “Shit,” I said, remembering the food in my freezer. Quickly, I scooped bowls of water from the bucket over my body and came out.
hopkins_contending_forces_Contending_Forces:_A_Romance_Illustrative_of_Negro_Life_North_and_South	1900	There are men and women whose seeming uselessness fit perfectly into the warp and woof of Destiny’s web. All things work together for good. Supper being over, the elderly people began to leave. It was understood that after nine o’clock the night belonged to the young people. A committee had been formed from among them to plan for their enjoyment, and they consulted with Ma Smith, in the kitchen, as to the best plan of procedure. “ The case is this,” said the chairman, who was also the church chorister: “ Ma Smith has bought four gallons of ice cream, to be sold for the benefit of this fair. It’s got to go, and it rests with us to devise ways and means of getting rid of it.” “ Get up a dance,” suggested Sam Washington, a young fellow who was the life of all social functions. “ Dance! ” exclaimed Ma Smith, “ not in this house.” The choir-master surreptitiously kicked Sam on the shins, as he said soothingly: “Under the circumstances I see no other way, as we’ve got to sell the cream, and there’s no harm in dancing, anyway.” “You ain’t going to object to our dancing, are you, Ma?
steel_mixed_blessings_Mixed_Blessings	1992	But she was in no way prepared for Nancy’s news, which didn’t come until dessert, which was a large piece of chocolate decadence with whipped cream and chocolate sauce. Pilar was impressed by her choice when she ordered, and even more so when she saw it. Nancy was certainly in good health and eating well, but at least it didn’t show, she was as thin as ever. “I’ve got something to tell you.” Nancy grinned as she ate great goopy forkfuls of the cake and whipped cream while Pilar watched her. “I’ve got something to tell you too. If you eat enough desserts like that, you’re going to weigh three hundred pounds by Christmas.” She was mildly horrified but amused, too; in some ways Nancy was still such a little girl. And she looked like one as she grinned impishly at Pilar and devoured another huge glob of cake and whipped cream, and then another. “I’m going to get fat anyway,” she said wickedly as Pilar sipped her coffee. “Oh, yeah? How come? Too many bonbons and TV? I keep telling you, even though your father says I should mind my own business, that you should go to work. Do something . . . even charity work . . .
ferber_ice_palace_Ice_Palace	1958	I don’t see why you’re so grim about it. I’ve never seen you like this.” He laughed then, his face clearing like a child’s. He is a little like a grown-up child, Chris told herself, suddenly. He always knows what he wants to do and then he just goes and does it. So she said this aloud. “You decide you want to do a thing. And then you do it.” “Isn’t that all right? I’ve made up my mind I’m going to show you Oogruk today. My version of Oogruk. And then Barrow if I can. I’ll do it if it costs me my job.” “I honestly don’t know what’s the matter with you, Ross Guilden-stern.” “Yes you do.” In the half-shelter of a single strip of raised canvas on the windy beach a pretty girl was bent over a mysterious task. A young Eskimo girl. Two small boys sat with her on the pebbled strand. They were absorbed in watching her at her task. She glanced up as the little procession came by. “Hi!” she called to them. “Hi!” Ross called in return. “Bridie! Stop a minute, will you?
mckay_home_to_harlem_Home_to_Harlem	1928	His life was a free coarse thing, but he detested nastiness and ugliness. Guess I’ll haul bottom to Harlem, he thought. Congo Rose was a rearing wild animal, all right, but these women, these boys. . . . Skunks, tame skunks, all of them! He was just going out when a chocolate lad pointed at a light-brown and said: “The pot calls foh four bits, chappie. Come across or stay out.” “Lemme a quarter 1” [7i] “Ain’t got it. Staying out?” Biff 1 Square on the mouth. The chocolate leaped up like a tiger-cat at his assailant, carrying over card table, little pile of money, and half-filled gin glasses with a crash. Like an enraged ram goat, he held and butted the light-brown boy twice, straight on the forehead. The victim crumpled with a thud to the floor. Susy jerked over to the felled boy and hauled him, his body leaving a liquid trail, to the door. She flung him out in the corridor and slammed the door. “Sarves him right, pulling off that crap in mah place. And you, Mis’er Jack Johnson,” she said to the chocolate youth, “lemme miss you quick.”
oyeyemi_the_icarus_girl_Icarus_Girl	2005	“I told you that this McKenzie would only bring trouble,” TillyTilly had said finally, before emptying the room of herself, the candles, and, last of all, the tall, inexplicably reproving board. “Jess, do you know what happened to my tea lights?” her mother asked, now, at the breakfast table. Jess shook her head and eyed her father as he rose and wandered out of the kitchen. He looked at TillyTilly, who had come back again, as she sat waiting on the staircase. He looked straight at her, as if he saw her but didn’t fully register what he saw, and Jess saw TillyTilly shrink up small against the wall as if something in his gaze frightened her. But neither Jess’s father nor TillyTilly said anything, and after that split-second pause, Daniel padded into the sitting room. “It’s really quite strange because I had three packs of them: all gone.” Her mother seemed about to continue, but was interrupted by the trilling of the telephone, which she rose to answer. After a second, “Jess, the bell tolls for thee,” she announced from the hallway, beckoning Jess. It was Siobhan, who was reminding her that she was coming over at five to spend the night.
micheaux_conquest_gutenberg_pg39237_Conquest:_The_Story_of_A_Negro_Pioneer	1912	Following this disagreement came another. I had always approved of Booker T. Washington, his life and his work in the uplift of the negro. Before his name was mentioned I had decided just about how he would take it, and I was not mistaken. He was bitterly opposed to the educator. CHAPTER XXXVII THE PROGRESSIVES AND THE REACTIONARIES It is not commonly known by the white people at large that a great number of colored people are against Mr. Washington. Being an educator and philanthropist, it is hard to conceive any reason why they should be opposed to him, but the fact remains that they are. There are two distinct factions of the negro race, who might be classed as Progressives and Reactionaries, somewhat like the politicians. The Progressives, led by Booker T. Washington and with industrial education as the material idea, are good, active citizens; while the other class distinctly reactionary in every way, contend for more equal rights, privileges, and protection, which is all very logical, indeed, but they do not substantiate their demands with any concrete policies; depending largely on loud demands, and are too much given to the condemnation of the entire white race for the depredations of a few. It is true, very true indeed, that the American negro does not receive all he is entitled to under the constitution.
wesley_aint_nobodys_business_if_i_do_Ain_t_Nobody_s_Business_If_I_Do	1999	And you blame Eva for that?" "I don't blame anybody." ealaria ailaca aaaalajr "But you said that when you left Irene," Raye said. Hutch rocked back in his seat as if she'd tried to hit him, but Raye stared him down and he couldn't interpret what was in her eyes—whether it was anger, disgust or simple curiosity. "Irene doesn't have anything to do with this," he said almost by rote. "If you say so." "I know so," he said with finality. "Be careful. Hutch," Raye said more gently after a moment. "Summers go fast, but that Hawk flying around the comer in the middle of winter will knock you flat on your natural, grownup behind if you're not careful." "I know that, too," Hutch said. SATURDAY, JUNE 28 Two weeks after Eva and Hutch broke up, Charley and Steven, their “grown" children by different partners, sat sharing a joint in Charley's studio apartment in a small New Jersey city that was close, but not too close, to the town where they had both grown up. "So what did Daddy say to you?" Charley asked. "Nothing. How about you?"
levin_three_by_ira_levin_Rosemary_s_Baby	1967	he asked. Something moved in her. “A lot?” Again, where nothing had ever moved before. A rippling little pressure. She giggled. “Rosemary, for Christ’s sake, how much?" “It’s alive,” she said, and giggled again. “It’s moving. It’s all right; it isn’t dead. It’s moving.” She looked down at her brown-velvet stomach and put her hands on it and pressed in lightly. Now two things were moving, two hands or feet; one here, one there. She reached for Guy, not looking at him; snapped her fingers quickly for his hand. He came closer and gave it. She put it to the side of her stomach and held it there. Obligingly the movement came. “You feel it?” she asked, looking at him. “There, again; you feel it?” He jerked his hand away, pale. “Yes,” he said. “Yes. I felt it.” “It’s nothing to be afraid of,” she said, laughing. “It won’t bite you.” “It’s wonderful,” he said. “Isn’t it?” She held her stomach again, looking down at it.
hawkins_the_girl_on_the_train_The_Girl_on_the_Train__trade_paperback_	2016	“Problems with the ex,” he says again, and there’s a nasty edge to his voice. We drive the rest of the way to Corly Wood in silence. We drive into the car park, right up to the very end. It’s a place we’ve been before. There’s never anyone much around in the evenings—sometimes a few teenagers with cans of beer, but that’s about it. Tonight we’re alone. Tom turns off the engine and turns to me. “Right. What is it you wanted to talk about?” The anger is still there, but it’s simmering now, no longer boiling over. Still, after what’s just happened I don’t feel like being in an enclosed space with an angry man, so I suggest we walk a bit. He rolls his eyes and sighs heavily, but he agrees. It’s still warm; there are clouds of midges under the trees and the sunshine is streaming through the leaves, bathing the path in an oddly subterranean light. Above our heads, magpies chatter angrily. We walk a little way in silence, me in front, Tom a few paces behind. I’m trying to think of what to say, how to put this. I don’t want to make things worse.
hoover_it_ends_with_us_It_Ends_with_Us	2016	Marshall already said he’d help me carry them down to my apartment, so Allysa helps me throw everything inside trash bags. I hold them open while she picks everything up from the floor. I’m almost thirty weeks pregnant now, so she doesn’t get the easier job of holding open the trash. We have everything bagged up and Marshall is on his second trip down to my apartment when I open Allysa’s front door, prepared to drag a trash bag full of gifts to the elevator. What I’m not prepared for is Ryle, who is standing on the other side of the door looking back at me. We both look equally as shocked to see each other, considering we haven’t spoken since our fight three months ago. This encounter was bound to happen, though. I can’t be best friends with my husband’s sister and live in the same building as him without eventually running into him. I’m sure he knew I was having the shower today since his mother flew in for it, but he still looks a little surprised when he sees all the stuff behind me. It makes me wonder if him showing up just as I’m leaving is a coincidence or a suitable convenience. He looks down at the trash bag I’m holding and he takes it from my hands.
xiaolong_when_red_is_black_When_Red_Is_Black	2004	It's your case, but it's also our special squad's case," Chen said. "It will be difficult, however, to hold him off for long, if we come up with nothing but some inconsistencies in Wan's statement. For Li, Wan is ideal, but the culprit does not have to be Wan. Anybody will serve as a murderer, so long as we give him a quick solution." "Yes, we have to make progress. Once the real criminal is apprehended, we won't have to worry about Wan or about Party Secretary Li." Finally, Chen put down the antique receiver and went back to the table. "Sorry, White Cloud," he said, "we simply cannot have a nice quiet evening." "An important man like you cannot expect a quiet evening, but it is nice. I appreciate your taking me out tonight." "The pleasure is all mine. Those interruptions aside, I've enjoyed the evening—and your company." He said, turning toward the approaching waitress, "Another double scotch for the lady." He did not know whether scotch was a proper choice after dinner, but it was what she had ordered earlier, and on the wine list it appeared to be expensive.
hogan_mean_spirit_Mean_Spirit	1991	The Hill People followed him and they leaned over the nervous dentist’s shoulder to peer into Horse’s mouth as they watched the operation. It made the dentist nervous. Once in a while, one of them would smile and point and say something that neither Horse nor the dentist understood, but the others would nod and respond. “The whites have a lot to offer us,” said one of them. “Dentistry, aspirin, Bromo Seltzer, and Burma Shave.” In spite of himself and his pain, Horse smiled on hearing this mention of commercial products. Toward night, at the picnic, a few women looked like they wanted to dance. They tapped their feet and looked toward the men who seemed to need at least another hour of talking among themselves, playing cards, and drinking another glass or two of liquid courage. It was getting dark and the lanterns were lighted. The band was a combo of Indian men and women called Tulaluska. They had traveled the United States and a few countries in Europe singing popular dance songs, blues, and even some jazz. And they sang songs, too, that only Indian people knew and when all of them joined in to sing about lovers and fights and broken-down cars, it was a shared world, between all tribes, all nations.
king_tommyknockers_The_Tommyknockers	1987	PROGRAM? the keyless computer screen beckoned. Hillman could have told Gardener what to do, but Gardener didn’t need to be told. He knew. He also remembered the nosebleed and the blast of sound he’d taken as a result of his single experiment with Moss’s levitation gadget. This made that thing look like a box of Lincoln Logs. Still, he had gone quite a ways down the path to becoming himself since then, like it or not. He would just have to hope it was enou— Oh shit, son, hold the phone, we got company. Then a louder voice overrode Hillman’s, a voice Gard vaguely recognized but could not put a name to. (back off back off hold on all of you) Just I think just one or maybe two That was the old man’s exhausted mental voice again. Gardener felt his concentration go out to the whirligig in the dooryard. In the shed, the light began to grow bright once more, and the killing pulses began. 15 Dick Allison and Newt Berringer were still two miles from Bobbi’s place when Freeman Moss’s mental shrieks began. Moments before, they had swerved past Elt Barker. Now Dick looked up into the rearview mirror and saw Elt’s Harley swerve across the road and go leaping through the air.
douglas_green_light_Green_Light	1935	Dr. Norwood, do you believe that 'whatever is, is right'—in the long run?... /do!" "I'm not so sure about that." "Then you'll have to give up your idea of'a planned universe.'" "Well—that won't be hard to do. I’m not sure of that, either." "Yes, but what becomes of histoiy', then? Doesn't it lose all its significance?" "Do you mean to say, sir," asked Norwood seriously, "that you interpret every social, political, and economic movement as a response to a predestined arrangement? The bloody revolutions, for example: not a very happy arrangement for the people who experienced them, surely." "No," said the Dean, "but they were a phase of human progress; and, as I said to you the other day, 'the ship is more important than the crew.' You and I both know that this is true, in our own experience; don't we?" His voice had lowered to a note of comradeship. Norwood, with the story of the Dean's vicissitudes fresh in his mind, felt a bond of mutual interest between them. At the moment, his own problems seemed of negligible concern.
roth_divergent_Divergent	2014	“What ...” I fling one of the pages over the railing, pressing my lips together. I should just ask. “What do you think of what she has to say?” He shrugs. “I don’t know. Maybe it’s a good idea to have more than one faction in control of the government. And maybe it would be nice if we had more cars and .. . fresh fruit and . . .” “You do realize there’s no secret warehouse where all that stuff is kept, right?” I ask, my face getting hot. “Yes, I do,” he says. “I just think that comfort and prosperity are not a priority for Abnegation, and maybe they would be if the other factions were involved in our decision making.” “Because giving an Erudite boy a car is more important than giving food to the factionless,” I snap. “Hey now,” says Christina, brushing Will’s shoulder with her fingers. “This is supposed to be a lighthearted session of symbolic document destruction, not a political debate.” I bite back what I was about to say and stare at the stack of paper in my hands. Will and Christina share a lot of idle touches lately. I’ve noticed it. Have they?
beckett_watt_Watt	1953	said the lady. Slightly overstepped his prerogatives, said the gentleman. I received a letter from him this morning, said Mr. Hackett. Oh, said the gentleman, I did not know they might communicate with the outer world. He is a solicitor, said Mr. Hackett. He added, I am scarcely the outer world. What rubbish, said the gentleman. What nonsense, said the lady. The letter contained an enclosure, said Mr. Hackett, of which, knowing your love of literature, I would favour you with the primeur, if it were not too dark to see. The primeur, said the lady. That is what I said, said Mr. Hackett. I have a petrol-lighter, said the gentleman. Mr. Hackett drew a paper from his pocket and the gentleman lit his petrol-lighter. Mr. Hackett read: TO NELLY To Nelly, said the lady. To Nelly, said Mr. Hackett. There was a silence. Shall I continue? said Mr. Hackett. My mother’s name was Nelly, said the lady. The name is not uncommon, said Mr. Hackett, even I have known several Nellies. Read on, my dear fellow, said the gentleman. Mr. Hackett read: TO NELLY To thee, sweet Nell, when shadows fall pgpg'-pg-pg'- I here in thrall
gordimer_julys_people_July_s_People	1981	Rain sifted from the dark. She knew only where the doorway was, to get back. She took off her shirt and got out of panties and jeans in one go, supporting herself against the streaming mud wall. Holding her clothing out of the mud, she let the rain pit her lightly, face, breasts and back, then stream over her. She turned as if she were under a shower faucet. Soon her body was the same temperature as the water. She became aware of being able to see; and what she saw was like the reflection of a candle-flame behind a window-pane flowing with rain, far off. The reflection moved or the glassy ripples moved over it. But it existed—the proof was that there was a dimension between her and some element in the rain-hung darkness. Where it was, the rain must have thinned: and now she saw twin faint, needled beams, travelling. They progressed slowly, and because there was no other feature to be made out between her and them, seemed half-way up the sky. Then a sense of direction came to her, from the luminous trace: she stuck a pin where there was no map— there, in the dark and rain, was where the ruined huts were.
mudrooroo_doctor_wooreddys_prescription_Doctor_Wooreddy_s_Prescription_for_Enduring_the_Ending_of_the_World	1983	When he arrived there next morning, he found that the savage amazon, Walyer, the pride of his collection, had collapsed. He thought the others took it well as he strode off to see the major. He had found out in the bar last night that the Governor was due in the neighbourhood. In reality, all the Aborigines were in mourning for Walyer who was on the verge of death. Wooreddy was listless with despair; Truger-nanna had cried herself tearless, and Walyer’s men, suddenly finding themselves leaderless and locked up, were completely demoralised. On top of this they felt betrayed and abandoned by the ghost who had told them over and over again that he would protect them like a father. But they had not been abandoned. They had worth to Robinson. He learnt that the Major was with the Governor in the barracks at Royal Park and hurried there to meet him. He handed over his dispatches and complimented the Governor on the successful beginning of his military operation. Arthur handed the reports to his secretary and on hearing that Robinson had captured some Aborigines, including the famous amazon, Walyer, decided to go immediately to the gaol to see them. He completely ignored the hapless Major, who, he thought, should be in the field leading his troops, and ordered horses.
brown_the_da_vinci_code_The_Da_Vinci_Code	2003	Whatever could this be? “Sophie?” her grandfather spoke from the doorway. Startled, she spun, dropping the key on the floor with a loud clang. She stared down at the key, afraid to look up at her grandfather’s face. “I . . . was looking for my birthday present,” she said, hanging her head, knowing she had betrayed his trust. For what seemed like an eternity, her grandfather stood silently in the doorway. Finally, he let out a long troubled breath. “Pick up the key, Sophie.” Sophie retrieved the key. Her grandfather walked in. “Sophie, you need to respect other people’s privacy.” Gently, he knelt down and took the key from her. “This key is very special. If you had lost it. . Her grandfather’s quiet voice made Sophie feel even worse. “I’m sorry, Grand-pere. I really am.” She paused. “I thought it was a necklace for my birthday.” He gazed at her for several seconds. "I’ll say this once more, Sophie, because it’s important. You need to learn to respect other people’s privacy.” “Yes, Grand-pere.’’ “We’ll talk about this some other time.
atwood_the_handmaids_tale_The_Handmaid_s_Tale	1985	I was just dizzy. I was just standing here and things went dark. It must have been the strain, she said, of yesterday and all. Takes it out of you. She meant the Birth, and I said it did. By this time I was sitting in the chair, and she was kneeling on the floor, picking up the pieces of broken glass and egg, gathering them onto the tray. She blotted some of the orange juice with the paper napkin. I’ll have to bring a cloth, she said. They’ll want to know why the extra eggs. Unless you could do without. She looked up at me sideways, slyly, and I saw that it would be better if we could both pretend I’d eaten my breakfast after all. If she said she’d found me lying on the floor, there would be too many questions. She’d have to account for the broken glass in any case; but Rita would get surly if she had to cook a second breakfast. I’ll do without, I said. I’m not that hungry. This was good, it fit in with the dizziness. But I could manage the toast, I said. I didn’t want to go without breakfast altogether. It’s been on the floor, she said.
puzo_the_godfather_The_Godfather	1969	Still proud, he refused all help from his clan. But a lawyer friend of his, a young man well connected and with a budding career in a big law firm, talked Felix into doing him a little favor. It was very complicated, seemingly legal, and had to do with a bankruptcy fraud. It was a million-to-one shot against its being found out. Felix Bocchicchio took the chance. Since the fraud involved using the legal skills he had learned in a university, it seemed not so reprehensible, and, in an odd way, not even criminal. To make a foolish story short, the fraud was discovered. The lawyer friend refused to help Felix in any manner, refused to even answer his telephone calls. The two principals in the fraud, shrewd middle-aged businessmen who furiously blamed Felix Bocchicchio’s legal clumsiness for the plan going awry, pleaded guilty and cooperated with the state, naming Felix Bocchicchio as the ringleader of the fraud and claiming he had used threats of violence to control their business and force them to cooperate with him in his fraudulent schemes. Testimony was given that linked Felix with uncles and cousins in the Bocchicchio clan who had criminal records for strong-arm, and this evidence was damning. The two businessmen got off with suspended sentences.
ladd_sarahs_psalm_Sarah_s_Psalm	1996	Joan reached for a Gauloise and, with a clinician’s patience, waited. Finally, I said, “I know he cares for me,” lighting her cigarette with my lighter. “But you more than care for him. You’re in love with him, right?” “Yes, I’m in love with him.” “Or in love with his world? I mean the world of his books and films, as well as the house, his servants, his fans—that whole scene. “How can I separate him from his context? Yes, I’m in love with the entire scene—the pageant of his life.” “Is there really a role for you in his pageant?” Irritated by her line of questioning, I was reminded of her college byline: Joan Brown, Wise Woman about Town. A regular feature in the college newspaper was her column on managing relationships with men, tips vicariously derived from confessional chats with girls who told her about ups and downs with their dates or steady boyfriends. Joan was still giving advice. “Don’t waste your time on fantasies about a Senegalese man who is twice your age. You might see him again, even have an affair, but there’s no permanent place for you in his life.”
beatty_the_white_boy_shuffle_The_White_Boy_Shuffle	1996	I’d have to remember to ask my mother to call the office to ensure they knew how to make butterfly bandages out of those “flesh”-colored Band-Aids. four I arrived forty-five minutes early for my first day of school at Manischewitz Junior High. A tattered and faded U.S. flag snapped solidly in the wind, full of bluster despite bearing only half its original fifty stars. The stars that remained hung on to the blue field by only one or two points. The putrid pink, dirty gray, and filthy baby blue of Old Glory had seen better days. I opened the steel front door and stepped into the deserted vestibule, looking for some middle school guidance. There was none to be found. No smiling faces welcomed me to the smelting factory of young widgethood. No signs directed me toward fall registration. I walked through the metal detector and went looking for the deans office to pick up my schedule. Walking through the halls, I couldn’t keep my eyes off the glossy panorama photographs of Manischewitz graduating classes past that adorned the walls. class OF ’23: Scads of white students and teachers dressed in pleated flannel skirts and pants. A young colored custodian with a mop in his hand stands next to a metal bucket. The name tag on his overalls reads “Melvin Samuels.”
farah_maps_Maps	1986	I’ve never learnt why.” Plates were passed to and fro. And I grieved at the thought that millions of us were conquered, and would remain forever conquered; millions of us who would remain a traditional people and an oral people at that. And I saw, abandoned, burning cities the Goths had set ablaze (I didn’t know who the Goths were, but promised myself that I would find out). I saw, in my mind, the Mongol Emperor, and he was riding a horse and kicking his heels against the beast’s ribs and setting fire to all the letters of the alphabet and more. I also saw abandoned dead bodies — those of men and women and children dead from napalm spray — and cursed the Russians and the Cubans and the Adenese. (I think this must have been after the Russians, the Cubans, the Adenese and the Ethiopian soldiers defeated the unaided Somali army.) And I saw history books open at the page beginning with the encyclopaedic definition of the concept “Civilization”. The written metaphysics of a people is their “civilization”. So read, read in the name of “civilization”, I thought to myself. And write, write down your history in the name of the same “civilization”. “This is a pen.”
french_in_the_woods_In_the_Woods	2007	There was a long silence, just the wind whisding eerily through the air vent and the sound of the rain. “And then?” “Then.” Damien’s head wobbled a little; his eyes looked blind. “I picked her up. I couldn’t leave her in the finds shed or you guys would know, so I was going to take her out to the site. She was... there was blood all over the place, I guess from her head. I left the plastic bag on her so the blood wouldn’t go everywhere. But when I got out to the site there was—in the wood, I saw this light, like a campfire or something. Somebody was there. I got scared, I was so scared I could hardly stand up, I thought I was going to drop her. ... I mean, what if they saw me?” His palms turned up to us in appeal; his voice cracked. “I didn’t know what to do with her.” He had skipped the trowel. “So what did you do?” I asked. “I took her back to the sheds. In the tools shed, there’s these tarps, we’re supposed to use them to cover up delicate bits of the site when it rains?
panger_black_ulysses_Black_Ulysses	1982	They stir the others to discontent and they lust after the Indian women.” “Have they lain with the Indian women?” asked Alvar Nunez in a hoarse voice, both hands tightening. “To my knowledge, no. Thus far their ardor has been confined to looks, whispered words, wet smiles and gestures with fingers. Not two hours ago I saw the five simpering over several of the maidens.” “I cannot trust myself to speak to them.” Alvar Nunez’s voice had grown hoarse. “If any one of those five whoresons were to appear this very minute I must split him crown to crotch—lust after their women! Tell them this, Lope de Oviedo, should I gain even the littlest evidence about further attempts at commerce with the women I will first cut away their parts with my own hands, and then have them slowly burned. Tell them my anger is such that I cannot trust my sword arm, thus you must carry my words.” To this threat made by Alvar Nunez, Lope de Oviedo added certain touches of his own. Finding the five surrounded by a dozen others, he walked up, boldly shouting, “Beware, lest Alvar Nunez cross your paths this day, Gon^allo Ruiz, Diego Lopez, Palacios, Sierra, Corral!
cliff_no_telephone_to_heaven_No_Telephone_to_Heaven	1987	At breakfast the morning after the news arrived, Boy pressed her. “Have you cried for your mother yet?” He spoke behind eyes newly wet. “No.” Her voice did not break. In a sudden he was on her. “You callous little bitch. I suppose you have more feeling for niggers than for your own mother.” Out it slid. The fury he had been holding in him escaped—the cause of his loss. Again, he aligned his daughter with his wife, who had abandoned him to strangers and died without a word. Clare breathed deep, looked full into his furious face. “My mother was a nigger”—speaking the word at him. His five long fingers came at her, as she had expected, marking her cheekbone, making her weep in shock. “And so am I,” she added, softly. She left the table to splash cold water on her face and get away from him for a moment. When she returned, he spoke to her as if nothing had passed between them, as if they had just joined one another at breakfast. He spoke to her without enthusiasm. “Your sister will be coming here.” And so she did. Speaking her mother’s language, while Clare spoke her father’s adopted tongue.
van_peebles_just_an_old_sweet_song_Just_An_Old_Sweet_Song	1976	He had learned that trick from Elmo. “No knowledge is ever wasted,” Nate always said. “Mind if I take off my wet shoes?” The driver’s eyes shifted from the road then back again, mimicking the puffing windshield wipers. “Naw, kid, make yourself comfortable.” Junior rubbed his bare feet against the carpet. It was a little wet where his shoes had been. He stretched his legs, inching his toes into the dimness of empty space beneath the glove compartment and, finding a dry spot there, his feet relaxed. Tension drained from his body till even his spine lay flat against the curve of the van seat. “Now you look like a human being,” the driver teased. “Instead of a wet chicken,” Junior laughed. He felt like a human being too. “What you doing out on a pouring wet day like this anyway?” With scarcely a pause, Junior began, “Running away, guess you might say. That is, if a grown man can be called a runaway, I’m one.” Junior turned to the driver, expecting to see his friendly face turned to him in seriousness. He was surprised to see that the driver’s eyes were cautiously searching the road for a path through the traffic.
huxley_brave_new_world_Brave_New_World	1932	“But people never are alone now,” said Mustapha Mond. “We make them hate solitude; and we arrange their lives so that it’s almost impossible for them ever to have it.” The Savage nodded gloomily. At Malpais he had suffered because diey had shut him out from the communal activities of the pueblo, in civilized London he was suffering because he could never escape from those communal activities, never be quietly alone. “Do you remember that bit in King LearP” said the Savage at last. “ ‘The gods are just and of our pleasant vices make instruments to plague us; the dark and vicious place where thee he got cost him his eyes,’ and Edmund answers— you remember, he’s wounded, he’s dying—‘Thou hast spoken right; ’tis true. The wheel has come full circle; I am here.’ What about that now? Doesn’t there seem to be a God managing things, punishing, rewarding?” “Well, does there?” questioned the Controller in his turn. “You can indulge in any number of pleasant vices with a freemartin and run no risks of having your eyes put out by your son’s mistress. ‘The wheel has come frill circle; I am here.’ But where would Edmund be nowadays?
tolkien_silmarillion_The_Silmarillion	1977	In all that time there were but affrays on the marches, and all Beleriand prospered and grew rich. Behind the guard of their armies in the north the Noldor built their dwellings and their towers, and many fair things they made in those days, and poems and histories and books of lore. In many parts of the land the Noldor and the Sindar became welded into one people, and spoke the same tongue; though this difference remained between them, that the Noldor had the greater power of mind and body, and were the mightier warriors and sages, and they built with stone, and loved the hill-slopes and open lands. But the Sindar had the fairer voices and 138 were more skilled in music, save only Maglor son of Feanor, and they loved the woods and the riversides; and some of the Grey-elves still wandered far and wide without settled abode, and they sang as they went. Chapter 14 Of Beleriand and Its Realms This is the fashion of the lands into which the Noldor came, in the north of the western regions of Middle-earth, in the ancient days; and here also is told of the manner in which the chieftains of the Eldar held their lands and the leaguer upon Morgoth after the Dagor Aglareb, the third battle in the Wars of Beleriand.
wilder_the_bridge_of_san_lius_rey_The_Bridge_of_San_Luis_Rey	1928	Doha Maria read no further. She folded the letter and put it aside. For a moment she was filled with envy: she longed to command another’s soul as completely as this nun was able to do. Most of all she longed to be back in this simplicity of love, to throw off the burden of pride and vanity that hers had always carried. To quiet the tumult in her mind she picked up a book of devotion and tried to fix her attention upon the words. But after a moment she suddenly felt the need to reread the whole letter, to surprise, if possible, the secret of so much felicity. Pepita returned bringing the supper in her hands, fol- lowed by a maid. Dona Maria watched her over the top of her book as she would have watched a visitor from Heaven. Pepita tiptoed about the room laying the table and whispering directions to her assistant. "Your supper is ready, My Lady,” she said at last. "But, my child, you are going to eat with me?” In Lima Pepita generally sat down at the table with her mistress. "I thought you would be tired, My Lady. I had my supper downstairs.” "She does not wish to eat with me,” thought the Mar-quesa. "
krantz_mistrals_daughter_Mistral_s_Daughter	1982	The next day, after breakfast, as they drove back to La Tourrello Teddy was more confused than she had ever been in her life. That moment, that brief moment when Julien Mistral had held her chin in his hand, was embedded in her mind as if she’d been shot be- tween the eyes and the bullet had lodged there. He hadn’t said another word to her—bedlam had taken over—but she thought about nothing else since it had happened. It was as if her life were a film and when Julien Mistral had touched her the director had yelled "Cut.” Until she saw him again the screen must remain blank, waiting. As soon as Teddy saw Mistral frowning impatiently at the invasion of their troop into his studio, she knew that he had been waiting for her as eagerly as she had been waiting for him. There could be no doubt about such passionate certainty. She walked over to the easel, holding her breath. He put out his hand and she took it and their hands clasped each other tightly without moving for a long second until they both remembered that they were supposed to be giving the conventional handshake greeting of France. "Bonjour, Mademoiselle Lunel. Did you sleep well?” "Bonjour, Monsieur Mistral. I didn’t sleep.”
o_connor_the_edge_of_sadness_The_Edge_of_Sadness	1962	The time before Martin fin’lly died she was to Chicago or Texas or some such place and all of a sudden she got the feelin’ that she’d best get home right away. So she did. Just in time to see them slidin’ Martin into the patrol wagon that rushed him to the hospital. And she hadn’t had a blessed word from anyone to tell her he had so much as a temp’rature. But there she was. Just in time.” For some reason this compliment to the powers of someone whose rights he had just been vigorously defending seemed to offend Bucky. “One moment, P. J.!” he said. “One moment there! There’s no miracle in that. No miracle at all. Martin was sick all the time. Everybody knew that. There wasn’t a day he couldn’t have gone down the skids!” “But he didn’t,” P. J. said calmly. “Not till Julia got there. I tell you, if I was sick and lay in my bed and who did I see come into the room but Julia, I’d know what was what. Julia knows the times. I wouldn’t be s’prised if she wasn’t on the train this very minute. Or the bus. Julia’s a great one for buses.
card_enders_game_Ender_s_Game	1985	A square formation of tightly-packed bodies in front, making a wall. Behind it, a cylinder, six boys in circumference and two boys deep, their limbs outstretched and frozen so they couldn’t possibly be holding on to each other. Yet they held together as tightly as if they had been tied—which, in fact, they were. From inside the formation. Dragon Army was firing with deadly accuracy, forcing Griffins and Tigers to stay tightly packed on their stars. “The back of that sucker is open,” said Bee. “As soon as they get between the stars, we can get around behind—” “Don’t talk about it, do it!” said Momoe. Then he took his own advice and ordered his boys to launch against the wall and rebound out behind the Dragon formation. In the chaos of their takeoff, while Griffin Army held tight to their stars, the Dragon formation abruptly changed. Both the cylinder and the front wall split in two, as boys inside it pushed off; almost at once, the formations also reversed direction, heading back toward the Dragon gate. Most of the Griffins fired at the formations and the boys moving backward with them; and the Tigers took the survivors of Dragon Army from behind. But there was something wrong.
lee_how_i_became_a_north_korean_How_I_Became_a_North_Korean	2016	I watched Missionary Kwon from the corner of my eye, the smooth facade of his face, which was beginning to remind me of a salesman’s. What he’d said about discipline and faith in the safe house was probably mostly true, but it was also unjust and cruel and, worst of all, dangerous. I was thinking about the nature of God, and especially about how to confess, when Missionary Kwon started the car and I was suddenly off the premises with a man I’d accused of being a potential murderer. I prepared myself. “Missionary Kwon—” “Daehan, I want to tell you a story about a man,” he said. “This man is me.” Before I could stop him, he launched into how he had once languished in a South Korean jail, a no-good man abandoned by society. I became extremely uncomfortable, suffocated as I was by my own secrets. “I lost everyone—my wife, my brothers and sisters—to my ways. I lost my son.” He tapped a photo dangling from the rearview mirror, a grave young boy around six. I couldn’t imagine Missionary Kwon as a father, but then maybe no one ever really seemed like a father. “There wasn’t anything illegal I didn’t do.
koontz_a_new_collection_Watchers	1987	“And I’m going to help you, Nora. I’ll be moving in for a while. It’s going to be fun. You’re a little nervous about me, sure, I understand that, 1 really do. But believe me, this is what you need, girl, this is going to turn your life upside down, nothing’s ever going to be the same again, and that’s the best thing that could happen to you.” 2 Einstein loved the park. When Travis slipped off the leash, the retriever trotted to the nearest bed of flowers—big yellow marigolds surrounded by a border of purple polyanthuses— and walked slowly around it, obviously fascinated. He went to a blazing bed of late blooming ranunculuses, to another of impatiens, and his tail wagged faster with each discovery. They said dogs could see in only black and white, but Travis would not have bet against the proposition that Einstein possessed full-color vision. Einstein sniffed everything—flowers, shrubbery, trees, rocks, trash cans, crumpled litter, the base of the drinking fountain, and every foot of ground he covered—no doubt turning up olfactory “pictures” of people and dogs that had passed this way before, images as clear to him as photographs would have been to Travis.
smith_white_teeth_White_Teeth	2000	Samad feels the tears before he can stop them; he reaches out to his eldest-son-by-two-minutes and holds him so tight to his chest that he snaps the arm of his glasses. “And then Magid is going on a trip with auntie Zinat.” “Will he come back?” It is Millat. “It would be cool if he didn’t come back!” Magid pries himself from his father’s headlock. “Is it far? Will I be back in time for Monday—only I’ve got to see how my photosynthesis is for science—I took two plants: put one in the cupboard and one in the sunlight—and I’ve got to see, Abba, I’ve got to see which one—” Years from now, even hours after that plane leaves, this will be history that Samad tries not to remember. That his memory makes no effort to retain. A sudden stone submerged. False teeth floating silently to the bottom of a glass. “Will I get back for school, Abba?” “Come on,” says Archie, solemnly from the front seat. “We’ve got to get cracking if we’re going to make it.” “You’ll be in a school on Monday, Magid. I promise.
sedgwick_the_little_french_girl_The_Little_French_Girl	1924	I wouldn’t blame you if it were a moral objection; but it isn’t. Those friends of yours are only in because they’ve escaped being divorced. Your objection to Alix is really, when you come to look at it, that her mother is unfortunate. — Isn’t that so? ” Yes, Lady Mary reminded him, vividly now, of madame Vervier. Her soft gaze was fixed upon him with something of the same surprise, yet with all of the same security, that madame Vervier’s had shown. Madame Vervier, in Lady Mary’s place, would feel precisely as she did. And he could see madame Vervier, after the little pause, bow her head as Lady Mary bowed hers in saying: “I accept it all. That is my objection. Her mother is too unfortunate. That is exactly what it comes to.” Mrs. Bradley, shut out from her son’s understanding and from Lady Mary’s tolerance, looked from one to the other of them, a deepening flush on her girlish cheeks. “But it’s worse, far worse than unfortunate,” she said. “How could she have lived a life like that with a little daughter to care for? It isn’t as if she had had only to leave a bad husband, Giles.
duff_once_were_warriors_Once_Were_Warriors	1990	My big brother (my hero) Nig, he’s copper brown; he only got called Nig by some uncle of Dad’s as a compliment. Man, some compliment.) Looks like a coffin lid, that piano lid. No it doesn’t. Just me being Miss Morbid again; that’s what Mum calls me sometimes: Aee, Miss Morbid at it again. Can’t help it. How I am. Can’t run around laughing at everything when I don’t find most of it funny. We have heaps of funerals in Pine Block, or people from Pine Block dying. Being killed, more like it; they don’t die of old age in our area, or even sickness much. It’s car crashes and fights and murders, and maybe accidents at work for those who got work. Have the funeral in their houses, most ofem, even though I know other Two Lakes Maoris they have it at their village, their pa where the person’s from or his parents or even his ancestry is enough; a real traditional Maori send-off. But it’s the old Lost Tribe bit with Pine Block: most ofem don’t have no links with that tribal stuff, that’s why they have the body in the house for the couple of days the funeral lasts.
delany_distant_stars_Distant_Stars	1981	"Go in! Go in, Danny... please!" She looked about the sky. Stolid and uncomprehending, Danny went forward. Inside he sat on the hammock, left fist wrapped in his right hand. Fidessa stood, turned, walked, stopped. "What’s the matter? What happened on High Haven?” "We’re leaving." She watched for my reaction. "Tell me what happened.” She put her hands in her pockets, took them out again. "Roger tried to get at Danny.” "What?” We regarded the silent smith. He blinked and smiled. "Roger got crazy after you left.” "Drunk?” "Crazy! He took everybody down to the forge, and they started to break up the place ... He made them stop after a little while. But then he talked about killing Danny. He said that Sam was right. And then he told me he was going to kill me.” "It sounds like a bad joke.” "It wasn’t--” I watched her struggle to find words to tell me what it was. "So you two got scared and left?” "I wasn’t scared then.” Her voice retreated to shortness. She glanced up. "I'm scared now.”
lee_to_kill_a_mockingbird_To_Kill_a_Mockingbird	1961	He has no money.” “Are we poor, Atticus?” Atticus nodded. “We are indeed.” Jem’s nose wrinkled. “Are we as poor as the Cunninghams?” “Not exactly. The Cunninghams are country folks, farmers, and the crash hit them hardest.” Atticus said professional people were poor because the farmers were poor. As Maycomb County was farm country, nickels and dimes were hard to come by for doctors and dentists and lawyers. Entailment was only a part of Mr. Cunningham’s vexations. The acres not entailed were mortgaged to the hilt, and the little cash he made went to interest. If he held his mouth right, Mr. Cunningham could get a WPA job, but his land would go to ruin if he left it, and he was willing to go hungry to keep his land and vote as he pleased. Mr. Cunningham, said Atticus, came from a set breed of men. As the Cunninghams had no money to pay a lawyer, they simply paid us with what they had. “Did you know,” said Atticus, “that Dr. Reynolds works the same way? He charges some folks a bushel of potatoes for delivery of a baby. Miss Scout, if you give me your attention I’ll tell you what entailment is.
quinn_the_duke_and_i_The_Duke_and_I	2000	“No,” he groaned, pulling her closer. “I want to be in your heart. I want—” His entire body shuddered when their skin touched. “I want to be in your soul.” “Oh, Simon,” she sighed, sinking her fingers in his thick, dark hair. “You’re already there.” And then there were no more words, only lips and hands and flesh against flesh. Simon worshipped her in every way he knew how. He ran his hands along her legs and kissed the back of her knees. He squeezed her hips and tickled her navel. And when he was poised to enter her, his entire body straining against the most all-consuming desire he’d ever felt, he gazed down upon her with a reverence that brought tears to her eyes. “I love you,” he whispered. “In all my life, it’s been only you.” Daphne nodded and although she made no sound, her mouth formed the words, “I love you, too.” He pushed forward, slowly, inexorably. And when he was settled fully within her body, he knew he was home. He looked down at her face. Her head was thrown back, her lips parted as she struggled for breath.
proulx_the_shipping_news_The_Shipping_News	1994	It was not too small. Their faces close enough for breath to mingle. Yet Quoyle was thinking of the only gift that Petal ever gave him. She had opened dozens of presents from him. A turquoise bracelet, a tropical-fish tank, a vest beaded with Elvis Presley’s visage, canary eyes and sequin lips. She opened the last box, glanced at him. Sitting with his hands dangling, watching her. “Wait a minute,” she said and ran into the kitchen. He heard the refrigerator open. She came back with her hands behind her back. “I didn’t have a chance to buy you anything,” she said, then held both closed hands toward him. Uncurled her fingers. In each cupped palm a brown egg. He took them. They were cold. He thought it a tender, wonderful thing to do. She had given him something, the eggs, after all, only a symbol, but they had come from her hands as a gift. To him. It didn’t matter that he’d bought them himself at the supermarket the day before. He imagined she understood him, that she had to love him to know that it was the outstretched hands, the giving, that mattered. On Christmas day a hunch of cloud moved in.
bambara_salt_eaters_The_Salt_Eaters	1980	Faces frozen at the glass seeing with two eyes merely the onlookers on the embankment holding their breath, or seeing closer by with two eyes the bullfrogs holding theirs in the shallows, the dragonflies suspended over the deeps and the wind waiting, the waters still and waveless till the shock of the plunge registered and the marshes sucked things under. Silence on the bus as at a momentous event. But an event more massive and gripping than the spoken word or an accident. A sonic boom, a gross tampering of the weights, a shift off the axis, triggered perhaps by the diabolics at the controls, or by asteroids powerfully colliding. Earth spun off its pin, the quadrants slipping the leash, the rock plates sliding, the magnetic fields altered, and all, previously pinned to the crosses of the zodiac and lashed to the earth by the fixing laws, released. A change in the charge of the field so extreme that all things stop and are silent until the shift’s complete and new radiations open the third eye: J.D., his fingers splayed out on the horn case, trying to connect with the music. A tune had caught him and held him in a moment when speech, movement, thought were not possible. Something in an idiom that had to be attended to from the total interior, captured, defended.
macinnes_salzburg_connection_The_Salzburg_Connection	1968	You did impress me, Bill. Where did you learn prison-style talk out of the side of your mouth?” “From desperation.” After remembering every signal, every movement, his mind had gone blank and he couldn’t even think of how to move out gracefully. “You did beautifully.” “My excuse was true enough. I really did forget to take our copies of your letter, and they have to be picked up sometime.” Even if hardly so promptly as this. But if Bill was in a hurry, she could understand. She, too, kept remembering Anna Bryant’s face, taut and bloodless, as she urged them to go, go quickly and send Cliff. So we possibly have done what she told us to do, Lynn thought, but I ought to have stayed with her; she is liable to have real hysterics, and that’s one time a woman shouldn’t be alone. Lynn glanced at Bill, decided not to mention her fears. He was fully as troubled as she was. As they crossed the square in silence, she tried a lighter topic. “We left our newspaper behind.” Our quick-study newspaper, giving a tantalizing glimpse of all the concerts and plays we probably won’t have time to go to.
oates_zombie_Zombie	1995	If he looks in the bathroom, I thought, I’m fucked. The tub I didn’t have time to scrub. The shower curtain so stained & speckled. BUNNY-GLOVES’ underwear wadded and soaked with blood & the pubic hairs I’d scraped off on the floor. “Son? I’m talking to you. How do you explain yourself?” “Well,” I said, “—apart from the mice, I don’t see what’s the problem.” It went on like that. DAD’S MOUTH shaped certain words emerging like balloons & my mouth shaped certain words & it was familiar to me & there was a comfort in that. For finally Dad gives up for he does not want to know & wipes his face with a % handkerchief & says, “Quentin, the main reason I dropped by is—how would you like to come home with me for dinner tonight? Your mom has made banana-custard pie,” & I said, “Thanks, Dad, but I’m not hungry I guess. I’ve already eaten.” Twelve years old & in seventh grade & now I was wearing glasses & long-armed & skinny & hair sprouting under my arms & at my groin & their eyes sliding onto me & even the teachers & in gym class
tyler_the_accidental_tourist_The_Accidental_Tourist	1986	And some who had no close relatives—say one of his readers, a salesman without a family—well, what was done about such people? Was there some kind of potters’ field for unknown travelers? He could lie in only two positions—on his left side or on his back—and switching from one to the other meant waking up, consciously deciding to undertake the ordeal, plotting his strategy. Then he returned to a fretful semiconsciousness. He dreamed he was seated on an airplane next to a woman dressed all in gray, a very narrow, starched, thin-lipped woman, and he tried to hold perfectly still because he sensed she disapproved of movement. It was a rule of hers; he knew that somehow. But he grew more and more uncomfortable, and so he decided to confront her. He said, “Ma’am?” She turned her eyes on him, mild, mournful eyes under finely arched brows. “Miss Macintosh!” he said. He woke in a spasm of pain. He felt as if a tiny, cruel hand had snatched up part of his back and wrung it out. When the waiter brought his breakfast in the morning, the chambermaid came along. She must keep grueling hours, Macon thought. But he was glad to see her.
guthrie_the_way_west_The_Way_West	1950	“Injuns? You see Injuns?’ Mack said, “No.” “Critters was uneasy,” Brownie put in. Mack couldn’t see the cattle now. The sound of their hoofs was a far drumming. Above it he heard the sudden voices of the other sentinels. Summers asked them, “Injuns?” “ ’Y God, yes," McBee answered. “Sure?” “No,” Patch said. “I seen one. One, or a wolf,” Holdridge added. Tadlock shouldered ahead. “Get horses, damn it!” “Hold up!” “What’s wrong with you. Summers? You want to hold a meeting?” Summers didn’t answer, but Lije Evans spoke out, “Leave it to Dick.” “Summers isn’t captain. Get your horses!” Summers spoke then, spoke with something in his voice that Mack liked but still resisted. “Don’t forgit yourself, hoss.” “I’m not forgetting those cattle.” Patch’s tone was mild. “Most of them are yours.” “Goddam it! What’s that got to do with it? You want to lose yours?” The men had crowded into a close bunch. A half dozen of them were trying to talk.
malouf_the_great_world_The_Great_World	1990	He was perfect except for his teeth. She could have whipped him up in her arms and half squeezed the breath out of him. But little kids scare easily, she knew that from experience. She didn’t want to put him off. At last she got round him with a lolly. She offered it and he looked sideways at Vic, who was busy talking, to see if he should accept, and when Vic nodded, put his hand out, undid the wrapper and popped it into his mouth. Then looked in dismay at his sticky hands. He was a very neat little fellow. She took the wrapper from him and ran off into the house to get a flannel, but when she got back he was licking his fingers like a cat. What amazed her was the pinkness of his tongue. She laughed, just to see it, and squeezing up to him on the bench, said, ‘Hey, what’s your best colour? Mine’s yellow. What’s your best cartoon?’ He looked at her then, a little crease appeared on his brow, and he shifted on the seat, closer to his father. She’d lost him. So all the years he’d been coming it was something different, the present he brought, and he was different too.
bromfield_the_louis_bromfield_trilogy_Early_Autumn	1927	It was John Pentland. The red mare had killed him at last. And she heard him saying, “There are some things which people like us, Olivia, can’t do.” What happened immediately afterward she was never able to remember very clearly. She found herself joining the little procession; she knew that Michael was with her, and that there could be no doubt of the tragedy. . . . John Pent-land was dead, with his neck broken. He lay on the shutter, still and peaceful, the bitter lines all melted from the grim, stern face, as he had been when she came upon him in the library smelling of dogs and woodsmoke and whisky. Only this time he had escaped for good. . . . And afterward she remembered telling Michael, as they stood alone in the big white hall, that Sybil and Jean were married, and dismissing him by saying, “Now, Michael, it is impossible. While he was living I might have done it. . . . I might have gone away. But now it’s impossible. Don’t ask me. Please leave me in peace.” Standing there under the wanton gaze of Savina Pentland, she watched him go away, quietly, perhaps because he understood that all she had said was true.
rushdie_midnights_children_Midnight’s_Children	1981	The State was to be partitioned; then not to be partitioned; then partition reared its head again. And as for the city itself—it was to be the capital of Maharashtra; or of both Maharashtra and Gujarat; or an independent state of its own . . . while the government tried to work out what on earth to do, the city’s inhabitants decided to encourage it to be quick. Riots proliferated (and you could still hear the old battle-song of the Mahrattas—How are you? I am well! I’ll take a stick and thrash you to hell!—rising above the fray); and to make things worse, the weather joined in the melee. There was a severe drought; roads cracked; in the villages, peasants were being forced to kill their cows; and on Christmas Day (of whose significance no boy who attended a mission school and was attended upon by a Catholic ayah could fail to be aware) there was a series of loud explosions at the Walkeshwar Reservoir and the main fresh-water pipes which were the city’s lifelines began to blow fountains into the air like giant steel whales. The newspapers were full of talk of saboteurs; speculation over the criminals’ identities and political affiliation jostled for space against reports of the continuing wave of whore-murders.
golden_memoirs_of_a_geisha_Memoirs_of_Geisha	1997	“I understand you had a talk with the mistress of the Ichiriki about me. Isn’t that so?” He took in a deep breath, but ended up saying nothing. “Minister, if I may,” I said, “I’d like to tell you a story about a geisha named Kazuyo. She isn’t in Gion any longer, but I knew her well at one time. A very important man-much like you, Minister—met Kazuyo one evening and enjoyed her company so much that he came back to Gion every night to see her. After a few months of this, he asked to be Kazuyo’s danna, but the mistress of the teahouse apologized and said it wouldn’t be possible. The man was very disappointed; but then one afternoon Kazuyo took him to a quiet spot where they could be alone. Someplace very much like this empty theater. And she explained to him that. . . even though he couldn’t be her danna—” The moment I said these last words, the Minister’s face changed like a valley when the clouds move away and sunlight rushes across it. He took a clumsy step toward me. At once my heart began to pound like drums in my ears. I couldn’t help looking away from him and closing my eyes.
fleming_casino_royale_Casino_Royale	1953	His mouth was open and he was breathing fast. He was waiting, waiting for Bond’s hand to gesture to the croupier, or else for Bond suddenly to slump backwards in his chair, his face grimacing with a scream. ‘Thus.’ Bond looked over at Vesper and Felix Leiter. They were smiling and talking to each other. The fools. Where was Mathis? Where were those famous men of his? ‘Quatre.’ And the other spectators. This crowd of jabbering idiots. Couldn’t someone see what was happening? The chef de partie, the croupier, the huissier? ‘Cinq.’ The croupier was tidying up the pile of notes. The chefde partie bowed smilingly towards Bond. Directly the stake was in order he would announce: ‘Le jeux est fait’, and the gun would fire whether the gunman had reached ten or not. ‘Six.’ Bond decided. It was a chance. He carefully moved his hands to the edge of the table, gripped it, edged his buttocks right back, feeling the sharp gun-sight grind into his coccyx. ‘Sept.’ The chef de partie turned to Le Chiffre with his eyebrows lifted, waiting for the banker’s nod that he was ready to play. Suddenly Bond heaved backwards with all his strength.
moyes_me_before_you_Me_Before_You	2012	"That's great. Dad. Really." I stepped forward and gave him a hug. "Well, it's really Will you should thank. What a smashing bloke. I'm just bloody grateful that he thought of me." I listened to them leave the house, the sound of Mum fussing in the hall mirror. Dad's repeated reassurances that she looked lovely, that she was just fine as she was. I heard him patting his pockets for keys, wallet, loose change, followed by a brief burst of laughter. The door slammed. I heard the hum of the car pulling away, and then there was just the distant sound of the television in Granddad's room. I sat on the stairs. And then I pulled out my phone and rang Will's number. It took him a while to answer. I pictured him heading to the hands-free device, depressing the button with his thumb. "Hello?" "Is this your doing?" There was a brief pause. "Is that you, Clark?" "Did you get my dad a job?" He sounded a little breathless. I wondered, absently, whether he was sitting up okay. "I thought you'd be pleased." "I am pleased. It's just...
stewart_this_rough_magic_This_Rough_Magic	1964	Somewhere something slammed, nearly frightening me out of what wits I still had. The torch dropped with a rattle, rolling in a wide semicircle that missed the trap by millimetres. I grabbed it back again, and whirled to look. There was nothing there. Only darkness. Which was just as well, I thought, recovering my senses rather wryly. Even if I had reacted properly, and grabbed for the gun instead of the torch, I couldn’t have got it. Prospero’s damned book, or whatever the package was, was sitting right on top of it, on the skirts of my coat. I had a long way to go, I reflected bitterly, before I got into the James Bond class. The wind must be rising fast. The big seaward doors shook again, as if someone were pulling at the padlock, and the other door bumped and rattled. The water ran hissing and lapping along the walls, and shadows, thrown by some faint reflection of starlight, shivered up into the rafters. The window was still dark, but I had had my warning, and enough was enough. The trap door went snugly back into place, my torch dropped into my other pocket, and, clasping the package to me with both hands, I clambered carefully out of the Aleister.
roth_portnoys_complaint_Portnoy_s_Complaint	1969	I’m going blind! A shikse has touched my dick with her bare hand, and now I’ll be blind forever! Doctor, my psyche, it’s about as difficult to understand as a grade-school primer! Who needs dreams, I ask you? Who needs Freud? Rose Franzblau of the New York Post has enough on the ball to come up with an analysis of somebody like me! “Sheeny!” she is screaming. “Hebe! You can’t even come off unless you pull your own pudding, cheap bastard fairy Jew!” Hey, enough is enough, where is her sympathy? “But my eye!” and rush for the kitchen, where Smolka and Mandel are rolling around the walls in ecstasy. “—right in the”—erupts Mandel, and folds in half onto the floor, beating at the linoleum with his fists—“right in the fuck- mg— “Water, you shits, I’m going blind! I’m on fire!” and flying full-speed over Mandel’s body, stick my head beneath the faucet. Above the sink Jesus still ascends ip his pink nightie. That useless son of a bitch! I thought he was supposed to make the Christians compassionate and kind. I thought other people’s suffering is what he told them to feel sorry for.
saro_wiwa_sozaboy_Sozaboy	1985	Keep quiet all of you, oh!’’ Then after some time he will shout again, “Keep quiet all of you, oh. Hei! Why can’t you people close your mouth?” The people will keep quiet for small time then after some time they will begin to hala again. As you see these Dukana people, they are not talking anything good oh. I can see they are all fearing, because once they see police or soza or even kotuma, they must begin to fear. Useless people. And when they are fearing like that, they cannot say what is inside their mind. Just smiling idiot foolish smile like that Chief Birabee smile. Myself too, I was not happy as they have called us to church and leaving us there just like that. So after some time one motor begin to come. At first I think that it is my master’s motor. But not so. It is small car. And the porson who is inside it come down quickly. He is wearing better cloth, so you can see at once that he is a very important porson. As he walked into the church, the police shouted “All stand”. Everybody stood up. The man in fine shirt walked to where Chief Birabee was sitting and shook hand with him.
gay_difficult_women_Difficult_Women	2017	The wall is painted with the color Ralph Lauren Soho Loft. I’m wearing a dress shirt, dark slacks, and a tie. My wife is wearing her favorite little black dress, strapless, low cut, highlighting her best assets. She is considerably shorter than me, so she’s standing in front of me. My hands rest on her shoulders. Our son is standing next to us, his hand on his mother’s shoulder, covering mine. He’s wearing cargo pants and an argyle sweater. We’re all looking at the camera. They’re smiling. I am smirking, eyeing my wife’s rack. One eyebrow is arched. Just before the shot was taken, my wife looked up at me and said, “We’re all so happy now.” I said, “Yes, you are.” My wife loves the picture so much she used it for our Christmas card last year and made several smaller prints to send to her parents, my parents, and all the people we’ve never known. I see this picture every single time I walk through the front door. I am terrified. I work with this guy Brad who is still active with his fraternity even though he graduated more than a decade ago. He went to Ole Miss. He thinks we’re friends.
morrison_sula_Sula	1973	It was his first encounter with the enemy and he didn’t know whether his company was running toward them or away. For several days they had been marching, keeping close to a stream that was frozen at its edges. At one point they crossed it, and no sooner had he stepped foot on the other side than the day was adangle with shouts and explosions. Shellfire was all around him, and though he knew that this was something called it, he could not muster up the proper feeling—the feeling that would accommodate it. He expected to be terrified or exhilarated—to feel something very strong. In fact, he felt only the bite of a nail in his boot, which pierced the ball of his foot whenever he came down on it. The day was cold enough to make his breath visible, and he wondered for a moment at the purity and whiteness of his own breath among the dirty, gray explosions surrounding him. He ran, bayonet fixed, deep in the great sweep of men flying across this field. Wincing at the pain in his foot, he turned his head a little to the right and saw the face of a soldier near him fly off. Before he could register shock, the rest of the soldier’s head disappeared under the inverted soup bowl of his helmet.
hawkins_chicago_hustle_Chicago_Hustle	1983	If he hit at her too far away from her job she would feel threatened by a delay. If he approached her too close to her job and she was a priggy type, she might be terribly offended for appearances’ sake, at the idea of a strange dude stopping her on the street. For the hundreth time, he thought, too bad it’s got to be sisters, but that’s what the program calls for. He appraised her body as he closed in. Beautiful liT brown skinned sister, ass stuck out like it had a shelf under it, nice legs too, and a pretty face. Yeahhh ... He suaved himself up to her left shoulder and with a languid motion presented her his card, stopping her in her tracks as he instantly began to rap. This was a delicate section of the game too. He knew, from past experiences, that he had to give her enough time to read the card but not enough time to think about it. “Good afternoon. Miss’’... nothing too flirty ... “my name is Phillip Dobson, Regional Sales Representative for Astro Cookware Products. The card I’ve just handed you can be used for a discount on any Astro product.Now then, at this point, may I ask whether or not you’re married?”
flavin_journey_in_the_dark_Journey_in_the_Dark	1944	"I’m awfully glad you both came out all right. Let’s get together, Sam, and we’ll really have a ride.” And he smiled and waved to Emilie, “So long—” And Becky had leaned back through the door while the intern held some gauze against her face. “Sam, be a darling please and telephone my family, and be sure you explain that I’m not the least bit hurt—just a tiny little scratch that needs a stitch or two. And call me up sometime—” The ambulance had clanged away. A policeman who had overheard her, shook his head and said, “She’ll wear the scar of that cut to her grave.” He had walked up Diversey, holding Emilie’s hand, till he came to the Rienzi where there was a telephone. Someone, the butler maybe, said that Mr. Adams was at home. He gave his name, explaining that he had a message from Miss Adams for her father. And then he waited, feeling pretty nervous at the hare idea of talking to a man like Stanley Adams, even on the telephone. The voice that answered was a grave and quiet one, not in the least excited by his information— “St. Joseph’s hospital, I believe you said?”
demille_the_charm_school_The_Charm_School	1988	The fire was so hot that it completely consumed the four bodies aboard, this official said. “The remains were no more than ashes and bone fragments and were impossible to identify,” he said.) The Pentagon would not comment on the condition of the bodies or whether Gen. Hollis had requested a briefing. However, a Pentagon spokesman, Gen. Earle Vandermullen, said yesterday that the Red Air Force helicopter that crashed was a turbojet and that a “fire of extreme intensity would not be inconsistent with that type of aircraft, especially if the jet fuel tanks were full.” The Hollis family did not issue any statements or talk with reporters at the funeral. The State Department said the Soviets gave the following account of the accident. Hollis and Rhodes boarded Pan Am flight 415 last Monday on what was supposed to be a direct flight from Moscow to Frankfurt. The airplane was forced to make an emergency landing in Minsk after Soviet authorities radioed the pilot that a bomb had been planted on the airplane. Because of their diplomatic status, Hollis and Rhodes were told by Minsk officials that they could return to Moscow without delay by boarding a military helicopter that would take them to a Lufthansa Airlines flight to Frankfurt. The helicopter carrying Hollis and Rhodes reportedly crashed about 15 minutes after it left Minsk airport.
emecheta_the_joys_of_motherhood_The_Joys_of_Motherhood	1979	She had thought she would be allowed to rest at least on the first night after her arrival before being pounced upon by this hungry man, her new husband. After such an experience, Nnu Ego knew why horrible-looking men raped women, because they are aware of their inadequacy. This one worked himself into an animal passion. She was sure he had never seen a woman before. She bore it, and relaxed as she had been told, pretending that the person lying on her was Amatokwu, her first sweetheart of a husband. This man’s appetite was insatiable, and by morning she was so weary that she cried with relief and was falling asleep for the first time when she saw him leave the room to go to do his job as the white man’s servant. She was so grateful to open her eyes and see him dressing rapidly and talking in a low voice to his brother who was sleeping only a few yards away. She felt humiliated, but what was she to do? She knew she must have cried all night long and that the older Owulum had been there listening, congratulating his brother in his heart. She was used to her long wiry Amatokwu who would glide inside her when she was ready, not this short, fat, stocky man, whose body almost crushed hers.
doctorow_ragtime_Ragtime	1975	The policeman looked at the Chief, who was grinning at his discomfiture, so that the issue for him was now his own authority. He said to Coalhouse I'm placing you under arrest. You'll come with me in the wagon. Early that evening the telephone rang at Broadview Avenue. The caller was Coalhouse and after quickly explaining that he was at Police Headquarters and why, he asked Father if he would consider putting up bail so that he could get to the city and not miss work that evening. It is to Father's credit that he responded at once, holding back his questions until there was the leisure to have them answered. He called for a cab and went down to the station house and there wrote a cheque for the amount, which was fifty dollars. But as he reported the incident to Mother he was put off because Coalhouse Walker was barely civil in his gratitude and rushed off to the train station saying only he'd make good the sum. The next evening the household experienced the oddness of a visit by Coalhouse Walker that was not on a Sunday. He sat in the parlor with his arms folded and told the story in detail. There was no aggrieved tone in his voice, he recited calmly and objectively, as if he were describing something that had happened to someone else.
robinson_gilead_Gilead	2005	“It’s really just the handles we’re missing.” That was a lie, of course, but it was compelled by the urgency of the situation. Finally the stranger agreed to accept the mare and her saddle and bridle and some odds and ends, twine and bootblack, which were meant to restore some part of his faith in cosmic justice, and which he accepted as poor recompense for his trouble, reasonably enough. Once rid of him, the people of the settlement could begin to consider the problem of that horse. Some of the men went through the tunnel from either end to check the state of its legs, since if one was broken they would have to shoot the creature. Then they could have dismembered it as needed and pulled it underground and filled in the hole in the road so as to conceal it. But the legs were sound. Excavating around the horse would only open more tunnel, but they decided that they had no other choice than to make a big enough excavation to allow them to walk the horse up out of that hole. In the meantime, there it was, sobering up, nickering and switching its tail. So they decided to lift a shed off what it had for a foundation and set it down over the horse there in the middle of the road.
mckinney_whetstone_leaving_cecil_street_Leaving_Cecil_Street	2004	The orange-and-red-and-silver-colored merry-go-round horses seemed to be spinning though she knew the carousel was still right now. The sky was a perfect blue this morning. It shouldn’t be, she thought. The sky should be a gray, thunderous sky this moment. A baby. The shame of it. The guilt and pride and dread and hope of it. She was allowing the truth of it to settle. Her eyes clouded as she listened to Shay already half into a plan. “We’ll go to Miss BB,” Shay whispered. “At least we know her. She seems careful and she doesn’t talk, all these years she’s been doing it you ever hear mention of a name? And living next door to Johnetta, if she had mentioned a name, all of Cecil Street would know. We can talk to Sondra first,” Shay said,' referring to BB’s daughter. “Though I can’t stand her with her big-butt self, she’ll keep it on the q.t., maybe she can talk her mother’s price down for us ’cause Miss BB’s probably as expensive as shit. Damn. You know Little Freddie’s gonna have to help pay too, you do realize that?
brown_the_lost_symbol_The_Lost_Symbol	2009	I mention this only because when I asked my office to search for a connection between the Hand of the Mysteries and Peter Solomon, their search returned one link in particular.” She paused, as if to emphasize the importance of her finding. “The Masons.” Langdon exhaled, fighting the impulse to tell Sato the same thing he constantly told his students: "Google" is not a synonym for "research.” In these days of massive, worldwide keyword searches, it seemed everything was linked to everything. The world was becoming one big entangled web of information that was getting denser every day. Langdon maintained a patient tone. “I’m not surprised the Masons appeared in your staff’s search. Masons are a very obvious link between Peter Solomon and any number of esoteric topics.” “Yes,” Sato said, “which is another reason I have been surprised this evening that you have not yet mentioned the Masons. After all, you’ve been talking about secret wisdom protected by an enlightened few. That sounds very Masonic, does it not?” “It does . . . and it also sounds very Rosicrucian, Kabbalistic, Alumbra-dian, and any number of other esoteric groups.” “But Peter Solomon is a Mason—a very powerful Mason, at that.
bradbury_fahrenheit_451_Fahrenheit_451	1953	Everyone laughed quietly. “It can’t be,” said Montag. “It is,”replied Granger smiling. “ Were book burners, too. We read the books and burnt them, afraid they’d be found. Microfilming didn’t pay off; we were always traveling, we didn’t want to bury the film and come back later. Always the chance of discovery. Better to keep it in the old heads, where no one can see it or suspect it. We are all bits and pieces of history and literature and international law, Byron, Tom Paine, Machiavelli or Christ, it’s here. And the hour’s late. And the war’s begun. And we are out here, and the city is there, all wrapped up in its own coat of a thousand colors. What do you think, Montag?” “I think I was blind trying to go at things my way, planting books in firemen’s houses and sending in alarms.” “You did what you had to do. Carried out on a national scale, it might have worked beautifully. But our way is simpler and, we think, better. All we want to do is keep the knowledge we think we will need, intact and safe. We’re not out to incite or anger anyone yet.
child_killing_floor_Killing_Floor	1997	He opened it up and signaled me through. Stevenson was waiting with his back to the large open area. The shotgun was gone. The backup crew was gone. Things were calming down. They formed up, one on each side. Baker gripped my elbow, lightly. We walked down the side of the open area and came to a door at the back. Stevenson pushed it open and we walked through into a large office. Lots of rosewood all over it. A fat guy sat at a big rosewood desk. Behind him were a couple of big flags. There was a Stars and Stripes with a gold fringe on the left and what I guessed was the Georgia state flag on the right. On the wall between the flags was a clock. It was a big old round thing framed in mahogany. Looked like it had decades of polish on it. I figured it must be the clock from whatever old station house they bulldozed to build this new place. I figured the architect had used it to give a sense of history to the new building. It was showing nearly twelve thirty. The fat guy at the big desk looked up at me as I was pushed in toward him. I saw him look blank, like he was trying to place me. He looked again, harder.
oates_the_wheel_of_love_The_Wheel_of_Love	1971	I imitate a teacher at school, Miss Strong, who is very thin and cries sometimes. . . . But the Fear is beginning: there it is. At the end of this block, and when we turn onto the next block ... at the end of that block it will be waiting for me. It has a. shimmering shape, no shape to it. I am sick inside. I am twelve years old on this afternoon. Sharon chatters With me. In front of our old house we are standing, two girls with books and things hugged up against our chests. We make faces. We roll our eyes. Behind me, inside the house, behind the pulled shades, the Fear is waiting. “See you tomorrow,” Sharon says. She leaves me to it. Inside the house, silence. The living room is too empty. Nothing is out of place, nothing knocked over or torn up. . . . J stand in the doorway think- ing, What if somebody has broken in and has killed her, and now he’s waiting for me with a knife? Nothing. The living room empty. Kitchen empty. “Ma . . . 7” There are two of us now, since my father left. I call out, “Ma? Ma?”
head_a_question_of_power_A_Question_of_Power	1973	Someone had turned on a record inside her head. It went on and on in the same, stuck groove: ‘Dog, filth, the Africans will eat you to death. Dog, filth, the Africans will eat you to death.’ She washed and dressed, then had to comb her hair in the mirror. She flinched and looked away. There was an unnamable horror there. She could not endure to look at it. Her hands were shaking badly. How could someone run away from their own mind? The record was right inside her head: ‘Dog, filth, the Africans will eat you to death. Dog, filth, the Africans will eat you to death.’ Dan later admitted that he had turned on the record. He and Sello were supposed to be friends who shared everything, including visions, and he claimed that he had gained an insight into everything at the same time as Sello. He had chosen the position of silent, unseen observer, but was suffering terribly because he was supposed to be frantically in love with her. He said something about their souls being ‘joined together at the roots’, so when Medusa put her in the torture chamber he decided to add to it with the record. He could not endure the pain of his suppressed love.
bloch_psycho_Psycho	1959	It was coming from upstairs, from the lighted room. Mary knocked again, using the end of the flashlight. This time she must have made her presence known, for the sound ceased abruptly, and she heard the faint thud of footsteps. A moment later she saw Mr. Bates descending the stairs. He came to the door and opened it, gesturing her forward. “Sorry,” he said. “I was just tucking Mother in for the night. Sometimes she’s apt to be a bit difficult.” “You said she was ill. I wouldn’t want to disturb her.” “Oh, you won’t make any bother. She’ll probably sleep like a baby.” Mr. Bates glanced over his shoulder at the stairway, then lowered his voice. “Actually, she’s not sick, not physically, that is. But sometimes she gets these spells----” He nodded abruptly, then smiled. “Here, let me just take your coat and hang it up. There. Now, if you’ll come this way----” She followed him down a hallway which extended from under the stairs. “I hope you don’t mind eating in the kitchen,” he murmured. “Everything’s all ready for us. Sit right down and I’ll pour the coffee.”
mda_the_heart_of_redness_Heart_of_Redness	2000	Only the person who had caused it could reverse it. And that igqirha should know. He was the one who had “worked” her underwear for her to be like this in the first place. NoEngland cannot be woken from the dead to remove the curse. But at least Zim can ask her to remove the pain when they meet in the Otherworld. The woman says she will not move from where she is until she is given an audience with Zim. “You set your friends on me ... to harass me wherever I went!” a callous Qukezwa yells at the hapless woman. “I will not move until Zim’s spirit departs from his body,” insists the woman. Everyone looks at Qukezwa as if the woman’s salvation lies with her. As if Qukezwa was responsible for her fate. She runs back to her rondavel, where she breaks down and cries. She is angry that they want to hasten her father’s death just so that he can carry their messages to NoEngland. She is determined more than ever to nurse him back to health. But the sick woman is just as determined to keep vigil outside Zim’s door. She is grateful for the bread and tea that merciful relatives of Zim serve her. But she will not be moved to any of the houses.
pugh_the_hospital_plot_The_Hospital_Plot	1979	“Oh, yeah, the little fight at the fair.” "Uh huh. It could be a relapse.” “The only way we can prove his sanity is to find those documents. What do you think about it?” “At first I didn’t believe that story but now—I just don’t know. One thing about Aaron. He may be sensitive, changeable, and have his hangups, but I don’t think he’d lie. I've never known him to lie to me. Yet he’s so sure about this and Rita doesn’t believe him either. I guess because of his obsession with this idea of Colonel’s.” "We’ve got to find out all we can about this Colonel. Aaron's court date is set in a month. That’s not a hell of a lot of time.” “Where do we start?” "First we talk to Rita and find out as much as we can about some of the activities and personnel at Bellevue.” When Silas and Everett reached Denise’s apartment, the sun was coming out fuller, replacing the early morning darkness with a cloudy grayness. The buildings took on a shadowy, eerie aspect. To add to the spooky atmosphere, the apartment door flung open before Silas could knock.
mcbride_the_good_lord_bird_The_Good_Lord_Bird	2013	In that manner I was also able to secret me a pair of trousers and a hat and underwear with nobody giving a hoot's notice, for it was too cold to care what a person wore out there. By the time we hit Tabor, Iowa, we was exhausted and hungry—except for the Captain, who sprang up every morning bright as a bird, ready to go. It seemed like he didn’t need sleep. And food didn’t interest him in the least, 'specially anything revolving around butter. He’d quit the living game altogether if it meant eating butter. Something about that delicacy just throwed him. But if it was turtle soup or roasted bear, why, he’d rustle through a pigsty in his drawers in the dead of winter just to get a whiff of that kind of game. He was queer that way. An outdoor man to the limit. He was all but enthusiastic the moment we hit town, which was strangely quiet when we plodded into the village square. He looked about and breathed deeply. “I am thankful we is in abolitionist territory,” he crowed as he sat atop his horse, gazing about."Even the air seems clearer. Freedom lives here, men. We are home. We shall rest here through the winter months.”
jackson_opoku_the_river_where_blood_is_born_The_River_Where_Blood_Is_Born	1997	Now, to find that place, which river would you follow? The Black or the Blood?” Kwesi had never known what to answer. Abena Anim would smile at his confusion. “If it is your home, why don’t you return there?” Kwesi would always wonder. “Why have you lived so long in this bush if you have another place to go?” And Abena’s eyes would become troubled. “Even as I hear my mother’s voice calling, something equally powerful pulls me away. It is as though I were a doll two sisters struggle for, without the will to move on my own. But one day children, I will.” And one of the children would ask her, “Then which river will you follow?” Abena would answer with a riddle. “What is first seen when a woman gives birth? The black of the child’s head, or the blood of birth?” Neither of them had seen a child bom in their forest home. How could they know the answer? They had reached the confluence, the place where the Black met the Blood. A mother’s voice seemed to call to them upriver, a voice that only Ama heard. A wind seemed to tug them downriver, a force which only Ama felt.
welsh_trainspotting_Trainspotting	1993	Sick Boy bought a roond ay drinks, makin a total meal ay it, ostentatiously waving his money aboot. — BILLY! LAGER? MRS RENTON ... EH CATHY! WHAT’S THAT? GIN N BITTER LEMON? he shouted back at the comer table fae the bar. Ah realised thit Begbie, now involved in a conspiratorial tale wi an ugly, box-heided wanker, the type who ye avoid like the plague, hud slipped Sick Boy the dough tae git the bevvy up. Billy wis arguing wi Sharon oan the phone. — Ma fuckin brar gits oaf fi gittin sent doon! Nickin books, assaultin a member ay the shoap’s staff, possession ay drugs. The spawny cunt gits a result. Even ma Ma’s here! Ah’m entitled tae celebrate, fuck sake . . . He must have been desperate if he wis reduced tae playin the brotherly love caird. —Thair’s Planet Ay The Apes, Sick Boy whispered tae us, noddin ower at a guy whae drank in the pub. He looked like an extra fi that film. As always, he wis pished n tryin tae find company. Unfortunately, his eye caught mine, n he came ower tae us. — Interested in hoarses? he asks. — Naw. :— Interested in fitba? he slurs. — Naw.
harris_the_silence_of_the_lambs_The_Silence_of_the_Lambs	1988	Dr. Chilton finished examining his collection of Franklin Mint locomotives and turned to her. "Would you like a cup of decaf?" "No, thanks. I'm sorry to interrupt your evening." "You're still trying to find out something about that head business," Dr. Chilton said. "Yes. The Baltimore district attorney's office told me they'd made the arrangements with you. Doctor." "Oh yes. I work very closely with the authorities here. Miss Starling. Are you doing an article or a thesis, by the way?" "No." "Have you ever been published in any of the professional journals?" "No, I never have. This is just an errand the U.S. Attorney's office asked me to do for Baltimore County Homicide. We left them with an open case and we're just helping them tidy up the loose ends." Starling found her distaste for Chilton made the lying easier. "Are you wired. Miss Starling?" "Am I—" "Are you wearing a microphone device to record what Dr. Lecter says? The police term is 'wired,' I'm sure you've heard it." "No." Dr. Chilton took a small Pearlcorder from his desk and popped a cassette into it. "
krantz_princess_daisy_Princess_Daisy	1980	She had so much style, which leapt out directly from her personality, that she imparted it to his merely fashionable clothes. His abilities as a designer were limited: he knew how to make women look pretty and feminine—he specialized in cocktail and dinner dresses, leaning heavily on the allure of ruffles and the rustle of taffeta, but never in his life had he had an origfttal design idea. Yet, year after year, rich women all over the country bought Robin Valarian’s expensive couture clothes. This came about only partly because of the exceptionally friendly way in which he was treated by the fashion press, whose members enjoyed being included in the parties given by this most exclusive of couples. Essentially his clothes sold because Vanessa was so frequently photographed wearing his dresses with her swaggering, devil-be-damned flair, surrounded by people of taste and status, that “a Valarian” had come to mean a safely pretty dress in which an upper-class woman could feel almost as if she were Vanessa Valarian herself, rising to the challenge of being dashingly, ruthlessly, dashingly chic. Their duplex reflected the strength of their bond. It was not cupidity that made them load every table with precious ■<(268^ bibelots, but the nesting instinct gone wild, castle budding on a domestic scale.
uris_exodus_Exodus	1959	All discussions of the disposition of these people became bogged down in furious arguments, accusations, confusion^ nationalism, and incrimination. The issue became so involved and mired that it turned into a political time bomb. Barak Ben Canaan was called upon once more to serve his country. The government of Israel asked him to make a complete study of this apparently insolvable situation. He made a painstaking investigation and his findings filled several hundred pages. In a short summary, Barak shed light on what appeared to be a hopelessly confused problem. SUMMARY OF THE ARAB REFUGEE SITUATION The most publicized afterevent of the War of Liberation 551 has been the Palestine Arab refugee problem. It has become the most potent political weapon in the Arab arsenal. The Arabs have gone to great lengths to describe the plight of these war victims and to keep the refugee camps as work* ing models to demonstrate to the world Jewish cruelty. Indeed, those who visit these wretched souls are certain to be touched by their plight. The Arabs would have the world believe that the Palestine Arab refugee is unique. Nothing could be further from the truth. Every war man has waged has created refugees, homeless and displaced people. Today in Europe and Asia, five years after the end of World War II, displaced people number in the tens of millions.
follett_eye_of_the_needle_Eye_of_the_Needle	1978	It gave him a temporary lift. “I just had a call from the great man,” Terry said. “He’s keeping the night vigil with us.” “I can’t imagine why,” Godliman said sourly. “He’s worried.” The phone rang. “Godliman.” “I have the Royal Observer Corps in Aberdeen for you, sir.” “Yes.” A new voice came on, the voice of a young man. “Royal Observer Corps, Aberdeen, here, sir.” “Yes.” “Is that Mr. Godliman?” “Yes” Dear God, these military types took their time. “We’ve raised Storm Island at last, sir . . . it’s not our regular observer. In fact it’s a woman—” “What did she say?” “Nothing, yet, sir.” “What do you mean?” Godliman fought down the angry impatience. “She’s just. . . well, crying, sir.” Godliman hesitated. “Can you connect me to her?” “Yes. Hold on.” There was a pause punctuated by several clicks and a hum. Then Godliman heard the sound of a woman weeping. He said, “Hello, can you hear me?”
flanagan_goulds_book_of_fish_Gould_s_Book_of_Fish	2001	But they did not listen* could not listen* would never listen* & seemed intent only on making me the instrument of their vengeance. And then Billy Gould found himself being not just a little sick* but most violently ill. For the world no longer existed to become a book. A book now existed with the obscene ambition of becoming the world. viii I slumped to the floor. I lay there for a time like a Chinese lantern emptied of light, crumpled & flat, my head sunk in disbelief & bewilderment. Was this what people would one day remember as their past? It was then I heard a bizarre shrill whistling. With a terrified jerk, I swung around, at the same time throwing my arms over my head in protection. In front of me was a small, mangy dog, standing on its two hind legs in the moonlight, whistling. Then the dog ceased, fell down on to its one other good leg, & looked up over my shoulder. Before I could turn back around, before I even heard him speaking I knew who it was behind me. ‘Tou area counterfeiter, Gould,' said he, his words slipping & sliding like his handwriting. I slowly turned & saw smiling down at me, of all people, Jorgen Jorgensen.
flynn_gone_girl_Gone_Girl	2012	We’re in a very prickly situation, basically. We need to tell the cops about the woodshed. We have to be on the front end of that discovery. But I want to lay out for you what will happen when we do. And what will happen is: They will go after Go. It’ll be one of two options. One: Go is your accomplice, she was helping you hide this stuff on her property, and in all likelihood, she knows you killed Amy.” “Come on, you can’t be serious,” I said. “Nick, we’d be lucky with that version,” Tanner said. “They can interpret this however they want. How about this one: It was Go who stole your identity, who got those credit cards. She bought all that crap in there. Amy found out, there was a confrontation, Go killed Amy.” “Then we get way, way ahead of all this,” I said. “We tell them about the woodshed, and we tell them Amy is framing me.” “I think that is a bad idea in general, and right now it’s a really bad idea if we don’t have Andie on our side, because we’d have to tell them about Andie.”
cornwell_the_last_precinct_The_Last_Precinct	2000	It is not quite seven-thirty and Marino has left for two reasons: He was paged about a possible identification of the body found dumped on the street in Mosby Court, and Berger encouraged him not to rejoin us. She said she needed to have some private time with me. I think she also was just plain sick of him, not that I blame her. Marino has made it abundantly clear that he is intensely critical of the way she interviewed Chandonne and that she did it in the first place. Part of this—no, all of this—is jealousy. There isn’t an investigator on this planet who wouldn’t want to interview such a notorious, freakish killer. It just so happens that the beast picked the beauty, and Marino is seething. As I listen to Berger remind Chandonne on camera that he under- stands his rights and has agreed to talk to her further, I am gripped more convincingly by a certain reality. I am a small creature caught in a web, an evil web spun of threads that seem to wrap around the entire globe like lines of latitude and longitude. Chandonne’s attempt to murder me was incidental to what he is all about. I was an amusement. If he figures I am watching his taped interview, then I am still an amusement.
highsmith_the_talented_mr_ripley_The_Talented_Mr._Ripley	1955	‘I don’t recall the name. A very small place.’ After all, he thought, through Marge he could prove that Tom was in Mongibello, alive, after San Remo, so why should the police investigate what pension Dickie Greenleaf had stayed at on the twenty-sixth and twenty-seventh? Tom sat down on the side of his bed. ‘I do not understand yet why you think Tom Ripley is dead.’ ‘We think somebody is dead,’ the officer replied, ‘in San Remo. Somebody was killed in that boat. That was why the boat was sunk — to hide the bloodstains.’ Tom frowned. ‘They are sure they are bloodstains?’ The officer shrugged. Tom shrugged, too. ‘There must have been a couple of hundred people renting boats that day in San Remo.’ ‘Not so many. About thirty. It’s quite true, it could have been any one of the thirty — or any pair of the fifteen,’ he added with a smile. ‘We don’t even know all their names. But we are beginning to think Thomas Reepley is missing.’ Now he looked off at a comer of the room, and he might have been thinking of something else, Tom thought, judging from his expression.
dumaurier_rebecca_Rebecca	1938	We got into the car together and drove away. And she knew I would do as she suggested, come here to Manderley, throw the place open, entertain, have our marriage spoken of as the success of the century. She knew I would sacrifice pride, honour, personal feeling, every damned quality on earth, rather than stand before our little world after a week of marriage and have them know the things about her that she had told me then. She knew I would never stand in a divorce court and give her away, have fingers pointing at us, mud flung at us in the newspapers, all the people who belong down here whispering when my name was mentioned, all the trippers from Kerrith trooping to the lodge gates, peering into the grounds and saying, 'That's where he lives, in there. That's Manderley. That's the place that belongs to the chap who had that divorce case we read about. Do you remember what the judge said about his wife ...?'" He came and stood before me. He held out his hands. "You despise me, don't you?" he said. "You can't understand my shame, and loathing, and disgust." I did not say anything. I held his hands against my heart.
peterkin_scarlet_sister_mary_Scarlet_Sister_Mary	1929	“Budda,” she said, “I come here to say, le’s me an’ you go look at de picture o Hell.” “I don’ want to see em,” Ben growled, “I ain’ got no money to spend on no picture o Hell. I’ll see Hell soon enough.” “I got money, I’ll pay you way. Dey ain’ gwine charge much if we stand outside an’ look at em through de window.” Ben shook his head. His eyes were hard, his mouth was tortured and bitter. Mary turned her eyes from his unhappy face to the quiet sky where a cloudless spring sun shone white, casting a bright sheen on Budda’s black skin and deepening the lines of his haggard face. God’s throne was somewhere beyond that dazzling light. Mary’s keen eyes searched the brightness and the blue sky all around it, but no sign of the Great I Am or His angels could be seen anywhere at all. Only a lone buzzard borne on rigid wings sailed slowly about between the earth and Heaven. As Mary watched him, his shadow floated silently down the Quarter street, then veered toward the wood-pile. She got hurriedly to her feet. That shadow must not come too near to her now.
gaines_a_gathering_of_old_men_A_Gathering_of_Old_Men	1983	This was Gil’s country. I had come back here with him a half-dozen times before, and it had always been pleasant. We would go hunting or fishing or just visit some of the people. Gil loved all the people back here, and they all loved him, white and black. He would shake a black man’s hand as soon as he would a white man’s, and the blacks would beam with pride when he did. But today I had not seen one black man, woman, or child since we left Marshall. Gil, with his arm in the window, was looking out at the trees along the Bayou Michel. Most of the trees were weeping willows; their long, limp branches brushed against the ground and the surface of the water. Every now and then you would see a cypress, a sycamore, or some other kind of tree, but mostly willows, and lots of bushes. When there was a little space between the trees and bushes, you would see the dirty brown shallow water. No form of life was on the water itself. No animals, no birds, nothing green. Only twigs and dry leaves that had fallen from the trees along the bank. Gil was looking out of the window at the bayou, but never saying anything.
mukherjee_the_lives_of_others_The_Lives_of_Others	2014	By the time Bhola was about five minutes into his telling, Somnath was a figure carved in stone. A shout came from inside the house: ‘Bholaaaa, Sooom, what are you doing outside? Come in right now. I’m making bananas-milk-puffed-rice for you. Come in quickly.’ Their mother. Som clung tighter to his brother’s neck and shook his head forcefully. Bhola put a finger to his lips and said, ‘I’ll come with you too.’ The hold on his neck relaxed somewhat. And so Bhola’s logorrhoea began to mutate into story-telling, the transparent, sense-filled words now a clear pane of glass between sound and meaning, offering a view of a fantastically confabulated world of wood-fairies, incarnations and metempsychosis, of imaginary beasts and birds and their magical powers, of mangoes so sour that a whole forest of monkeys was struck dumb after eating them off the trees . . . and so it went on, over the years. One day Adinath overheard, in passing, a particularly colourful story about speaking fish that could transform themselves into malignant spirits residing in tamarind trees and remarked, ‘Arrey, you are not half-bad at spinning tales. When you grow up, you will be a writer.’
golding_lord_of_the_flies_Lord_of_the_Flies	1954	I got a right to speak.” The twins giggled together. “We wanted smoke—” “Now look—!” A pall stretched for miles away from the island. All the boys except Piggy started to giggle; presently they were shrieking with laughter. Piggy lost his temper. “I got the conch! Just you listen! The first thing we ought to have made was shelters down there by the beach. It wasn’t half cold down there in the night. But the first time Ralph says ‘fire’ you goes howling and screaming up this here mountain. Like a pack of kids!” By now they were listening to the tirade. “How can you expect to be rescued if you don’t put first things first and act proper?” He took off his glasses and made as if to put down the conch; but the sudden motion toward it of most of the older boys changed his mind. He tucked the shell under his arm, and crouched back on a rock. “Then when you get here you build a bonfire that isn’t no use. Now you been and set the whole island on fire. Won’t we look funny if the whole island burns up? Cooked fruit, that’s what we’ll have to eat, and roast pork.
atkinson_case_histories_Case_Histories	2004	Of course, at the rate he was going it wouldn’t be early retire- ment, just retirement. Jackson could remember when he was a kid and retired men were the old guys who tottered between the allotment and the corner of the pub. They had seemed like really old guys but maybe they weren’t much older than he was now. Jackson was forty-five but felt much, much older. He was at that dangerous age when men suddenly notice that they’re going to die eventually, inevitably, and there isn’t a damn thing they can do about it, but that doesn’t stop them from trying, whether it’s shagging anything that moves or listening to early Bruce Springsteen and buying a top-of-the-range motorbike (a BMW K 1200 LT usually, thus considerably upping their chances of meeting death even earlier than anticipated). Then there were the guys who found themselves in the rut of routine alcoholic tedium — the lost and lonesome highway of your average beta male (his father’s way). And then there was Jackson’s own chosen path that led to the everyday Zen of a French house with its white stucco walls, geraniums in pots on the windowsills, a blue door, the paint peeling because who gives a damn about house maintenance in rural France?
jones_the_healing_The_Healing	1998	And what if a woman is called to preach the same as a man? she asked. But us church don’t believe a woman is called to preach, even if she herself believe she is called to preach, and one of the women, you know the one from Memphis, say, Maybe she called to teach and thought she were called to preach. Maybe the Lord say teach and she thought he say preach. So she give that little lecture. She referred to it as a lecture, but it sounded like preaching to me. Same difference. I can already hear ’em talking about me, those flibbertigibbets. She ain’t no preacher woman or a teacher woman neither, she a faith healer, one of them others be saying. What’s the difference? She look like she belong on a submarine or on a motorcycle. They don’t allow womens on no submarine. On the modern submarine they do, ’cause this is the age of feminism. Her and that bum’s jacket. It’s what they call a bomber jacket. Anyway, I seen her heal someone in D.C. I seen her when she healed in Memphis and then again in Kansas City. She even healed folks in Milan, that’s over there in Italy. Dottoressa is what they calls her there in that Milan.
welty_the_optimists_daughter_The_Optimist_s_Daughter	1973	Phil had the gift—the gift of his hands. And he planed— fitted—glued—clamped—it’s made on the true, look and see, it’s still as straight as his T-square. Tongued and grooved—tight-fitted, every edge—” “I couldn’t care less,” said Fay. “I watched him make it. He’s the one in the family who could make things. We were a family of comparatively helpless people—that’s what so bound us, bound us together. My mother blessed him when she saw this. She said it was sound and beautiful and exactly suited her long-felt needs, and she welcomed it into her kitchen.” “It’s mine now,” said Fay. “But I’m the one that’s going to take care of it,” said Laurel. “You mean you’re asking me to give it to you?” “I’m going to take it back to Chicago with me.” “What makes you think I’ll let you? What’s made you so brazen all at once ?” “Finding the breadboard!” Laurel cried. She placed both hands down on it and gave it the weight of her body. “Fine Miss Laurel!” said Fay.
lawrence_three_complete_novels_Lady_Chatterley_s_Lover	1928	Dress, jewels up to a point, any night-club you like, know anybody you want to know, live the pace . . . travel and be somebody wherever you go. . . . Dam it, every sort of good time.” He spoke it almost in a brilliancy of triumph, and Connie looked at him as if dazzled, and really feeling nothing at all. Hardly even the surface of her mind was tickled at the glowing prospects he offered her. Hardly even her most outside self responded, that at any other time would have been thrilled. She just got no feeling from it all, she couldn’t “go off.” She just sat and stared and looked dazzled, and felt nothing, only somewhere she smelt the extraordinary unpleasant smell of the bitch-goddess. Mick sat on tenterhooks, leaning forward in his chair, glaring at her almost hysterically: and whether he was more anxious out of vanity for her to say Yes! or whether he was more panic-stricken for fear she should say Yes—who can tell? “I should have to think about it,” she said. “I couldn’t say now. It may seem to you Clifford doesn’t count, but he does. When you think how disabled he is. . . .”
seth_a_suitable_boy_A_Suitable_Boy	1993	Maan was nonplussed. ‘Don’t you listen ?’ demanded Mahesh Kapoor, wanting to twist Maan’s ear. ‘You are as bad as the clerks in the Revenue Department. You were not paying attention, you were waving at Firoz.’ Maan looked a little shamefaced. He knew what his father thought of him. But he had been enjoying himself until a couple of minutes ago, and it was just like Baoji to come and puncture his light spirits. ‘So that’s all fixed up,’ continued his father. ‘Don’t tell me later that I didn’t warn you. And don’t get that weak-willed woman, your mother, to change her mind and come telling me that you aren’t yet ready to take on the responsibilities of a man.’ ‘No, Baoji,’ said Maan, getting the drift of things and looking a trifle glum. ‘We chose well for Veena, we have chosen well for Pran, and you are not to complain about our choice of a bride for you.’ Maan said nothing. He was wondering how to repair the puncture. He had a bottle of Scotch upstairs in his room, and perhaps he and Firoz could escape for a few minutes before the ceremony - or even during it - for refreshment.
metalious_peyton_place_Peyton_Place	1956	All those in favor?” The “Ayes” would shake the rafters, while Seth Buswell and a few others would utter the only “Nays.” Dexter Humphrey coughed. "What is your wish in this matter?” he demanded frantically, refusing to put the question to a vote until someone spoke. Leslie Harrington continued to sit still, staring thoughtfully out of a window in the courthouse meeting room. Dexter’s eyes sought the room, trying to locate Seth Buswell. The newspaper owner sat with Matthew Swain and Tomas Makris in a seat toward the rear of the room. Seth studied his fingernails with a deep concentration, but he did not rise to speak. Fool! thought Dexter Humphrey angrily. Damned fool! He’s been shooting his mouth off for years about zoning, and now when he has a chance to see the bloody question come to a vote, he does not rise to press his advantage. The tension in the room mounted to an almost unbearable degree while Dexter waited. When a farmer finally stood up and cleared his throat preparatory to speaking, the gathering let out its breath as if in one gigantic sigh. “Does this here zonin’ business mean that if I wanna put up a new chicken house, I gotta go and ask somebody?” asked the farmer.
nguyen_the_sympathizer_The_Sympathizer	2016	We respected our poets and assumed they had something important to teach us, and this Poet did. He had written a few columns for Sonny’s newspaper, explaining the vagaries of American life or the cultural miscommu-nications between Americans and us, and in this vein he interspersed his introductions of the singers with brief lessons in our culture or the American culture. When it came time for Lana, he began by saying, Some of you may have heard that the Americans are a people who like to dream. It’s true, and although some say that America is a welfare state, in actuality it is a dream state. Here, we can dream of anything, can’t we, ladies and gentlemen? I will tell you what my American Dream is, he said, holding the microphone with the care one reserved for a stick of dynamite. My American Dream is to see once more, before I die, the land where I was born, to taste once more the ripe persimmons from the tree of my family’s garden in Tay Ninh. My American Dream is to return home so I can light incense at the tomb of my grandparents, to roam that beautiful country of ours when it is at last peaceful and the sound of guns cannot be heard over the shouts of joy.
morrison_the_bluest_eye_*The_Bluest_Eye	1970	“How do babies get the blood?” asked Pecola. “Through the like-line. You know. Where your belly button is. That is where the like-line grows from and pumps the blood to the baby.” “Well, if the belly buttons are to grow like-lines to give the baby blood, and only girls have babies, how come boys have belly buttons?” Maureen hesitated. “I don’t know,” she admitted. “But boys have all sorts of things they don’t need.” Her tinkling laughter was somehow stronger than our nervous ones. She curled her tongue around the edge of the cone, scooping up a dollop of purple that made my eyes water. We were waiting for a stop light to change. Maureen kept scooping the ice cream from around the cone’s edge with her tongue; she didn’t bite the edge as I would have done. Her tongue circled the cone. Pecola had finished hers; Maureen evidently liked her things to last. While I was thinking about her ice cream, she must have been thinking about her last remark, for she said to Pecola, “Did you ever see a naked man?” Pecola blinked, then looked away. “No. Where would I see a naked man?”
white_voss_Voss	1957	That is why you are bleeding.’ It was falling on their hands in hot, opaque drops. But he would not look at her face yet. They had come to a broad plain of small stones, round in shape, of which at least some were apparently quartz, for where the swords of the sun penetrated the skin of the stone a blinding light would burst forth. These flashes of pure light, although rare, brought cries to the mouths of the three white men. The light was of such physical intensity. Laura Trevelyan, who had experienced sharper daggers, was silent, though. She rode apart, and waited. When the men had recovered from their surprise, it was seen that the two columns of natives had come upon their rear, and were standing ranged behind them in an arc of concentrated silence. Voss dismounted, and was waiting. For ages everybody stood, and it seemed that nothing would ever happen beyond this commingling of silences, when there was a commotion in the ranks of the blacks, and an individual was pushed forward. He came, looking to the bare ground for inspiration, and when he had approached, Voss addressed him. ‘Well, Jackie, I do not blame you,’ he said. ‘I knew that this would have to happen.
ward_salvage_the_bones_Salvage_the_Bones	2011	Got a killingjaw. Skeetah would ignore Manny, or glance at him while he was dragging China through the sand, around the junk by her teeth locked in a bike tire, and say, Really. Yeah, Manny would say, and his white teeth would flash in his glass-burned, beautiful face. Yeah. China would squeal a dog’s squeal and bear down with her haunches, make Skeetah stumble toward her. We'll see, Skeetah’d say. Rico called China small-time until he came to the Pit with Manny one day and finally saw her: knee-high, stout as any boy dog but still sleek with muscle, and her long neck and head like a snake’s. Skeetah had her climb a leaning tree and then shred a half of a car tire, pulling it so hard the wire in the rubber made Skeet’s hands bleed. When they mated, China had let Kilo lick her from behind, let him mount. Smiled like she liked it. The tendons had stood out in Skeetah’s neck, and he squinted so that it looked like his eyes were closed. Kilo had placed his big mouth on her neck like he was kissing her and slobbered on her. She’d snapped at him, figured it for a hold. Hated the submission of it.
toomer_cane_gutenberg_60093-0_Cane	1923	His mind fastens on Kabnis.) Say, tell me this, whats on your mind t say on that feller there? Kabnis’ name. One queer bird ought t know another, seems like t me. Licker has released conflicts in Kabnis and set them flowing. He pricks his ears, intuitively feels that the talk is about him, leaves Cora, and approaches the table. His eyes are watery, heavy with passion. He stoops. He is a ridiculous pathetic figure in his showy robe. Kabnis: Talkin bout me. I know. I’m th topic of conversation everywhere theres talk about this town. Girls an fellers. White folks as well. An if its me youre talkin bout, guess I got a right t listen in. Whats sayin? Whats sayin bout his royal guts, the Duke? Whats sayin, eh? Halsey (to Lewis): We’ll take it up another time. Kabnis: No nother time bout it Now. I’m here now an talkin’s just begun. I was born an bred in a family of orators, thats what I was. Halsey: Preachers. Kabnis: Na. Preachers hell. I didnt say wind-busters. Y misapprehended me. Y understand what that means, dont y?
mcfadden_glorious_Glorious	2010	Henry had wandered off to the music room and was playing the piano. At the sound of the word he’d missed a note and begun the score from the beginning. “Nigger,” Nancy whispered. “It’s the vilest word in the English language and I don’t understand how it’s used so freely here in this country. It’s bounced around like a child’s ball. And to use it in literature, in the very thing that should bring the races together...” Nancy shook her head in dismay. “Well, I think it’s just awful.” Meredith was unfazed because she understood that as unsavory as the word was, it was also a part of life, a stitch in the American quilt. One would have to go back hundreds of years to rid the world of it and everyone knew the past could not be undone, so the word, as far as Meredith was concerned, was here to stay. But she humored Nancy: “Darling, you are absolutely right.” Her eyes swung to Easter and then back to Nancy. “Did I tell you that Easter is also working on a book?” Nancy grinned. “Oh my, I had no idea that you were a writer.” “Oh yes, and a very talented one.
wilson_our_nig_gutenberg_pg584_Our_Nig	1859	What shall I render to the Lord for all his benefits?" Months passed on, and she was HAPPY--truly happy. Her health began to improve under the genial sunshine in which she lived, and she even looked forward with HOPE--joyful hope to the future. But, alas, "it is not in man that walketh to direct his steps." One beautiful morning in the early spring of 1842, as she was taking her usual walk, she chanced to meet her old friend, the "lecturer," who brought her to W-----, and with him was a fugitive slave. Young, well-formed and very handsome, he said he had been a HOUSE-servant, which seemed to account in some measure for his gentlemanly manners and pleasing address. The meeting was entirely accidental; but it was a sad occurrence for poor Alfrado, as her own sequel tells. Suffice it to say, an acquaintance and attachment was formed, which, in due time, resulted in marriage. In a few days she left W-----, and ALL her home comforts, and took up her abode in New Hampshire. For a while everything went on well, and she dreamed not of danger; but in an evil hour he left his young and trusting wife, and embarked for sea.
toole_a_confederacy_of_dunces_A_Confederacy_of_Dunces	1981	Ignatius asked. “No.” “My son loves Dr. Nut,” Mrs. Reilly explained. “I gotta buy it by the case. Sometimes he sits himself down and drinks two, three Dr. Nuts at one time.” “I am sure that this man is not particularly interested,” Ignatius said. “Like to take that cap off?” the bartender asked. “No, I wouldn’t!” Ignatius thundered. “There’s a chill in here.” “Suit yourself,” the bartender said and drifted off into the shadows at the other end of the bar. “Really!” “Calm down,” his mother said. Ignatius raised the earflap on the side next to his mother. “Well, I will lift this so that you won’t have to strain your voice. What did the doctor tell you about your elbow or whatever it is?” “It’s gotta be massaged.” “I hope you don’t want me to do that. You know how I feel about touching other people,” “He told me to stay out the cold as much as possible.” “If I could drive, I would be able to help you more, I imagine.” “Aw, that’s okay, honey.”
cain_double_indemnity_Double_Indemnity	1936	“Yes.” “Then you go there. The state tax man will be there, under — 68 the law he has to be present. They’ll find the policy, and you hand it to your lawyer. Instruct him to put your claim in. Everything waits until you do that.” “Put the claim in.” “That’s right. Now wait a minute, Phyllis. Here’s something you mustn’t tell that lawyer—yet. They’re not going to pay that claim.” “What!” “They’re not going to pay it.” “Don’t they have to pay it?” “They think it’s—suicide—and they’re going to make you sue, and put it in the hands of the jury, before they pay. Don’t tell your lawyer that now, he’ll find it out for himself later. He’ll want to sue, and you let him. We’ll have to pay him, but it’s our only chance. Now Phyllis, one other thing.” “Yes.” “I can’t see you.” “But I want to see you.” “We don’t dare see each other. Suicide is what they hope for, but they’re mighty suspicious all the way around.
marquand_wickford_point_Wickford_Point	1939	My father’s cousin was married to a descendant of the Wickford Sage.” “Good God,” said Allen Southby, “you never told me that.” “But I thought you were going to write about yourself,” I said again. “I have put myself into the scene,” he explained. “I have translated a good many of my experiences into that scene. As a matter of fact I know everything about every character in the Wickford Farm group from the Brill papers in the library.” “Did you ever know my great-aunt Sarah?” I asked. Allen shook his head. “Then you don’t know anything about the Wickford group,” I told him. “Then why don’t you write about it yourself,” said Allen tartly, “if you know so much? I’d like to see the first two chapters of your novel.” “I might write about it if I had time,” I said, “but no one would belch in my novel. No one at Wickford ever belched.” There was a faint pink flush under Allen’s healthy tan. We were both being infantile, but the fiction which one writes is so essentially a part of one’s ego that disparagement of it is worse than physical pain.
douglas_the_big_fisherman_The_Big_Fisherman	1949	This man does not seem to be an avenger. He speaks with the most gentle, entreating voice I ever heard, a soothing voice that makes you very quiet — inside. He did not talk about punishment in store for wrongdoers, nor did he say that the mighty would be dragged from their seats, nor that those of low degree would be exalted. But he spoke peace and courage to the poor.” She paused for a long moment. “And little children crowded about him — and he cured a small boy of his lameness.” John stared hard at his prison-door and drew a deep sigh. “Begin at the beginning then,” he said, huskily — “and tell me everything.” So — Esther began at the beginning, and told him everything she could remember; the wistful, hurrying pilgrimage on the road, the great mass of people in the field, the placid voice that reached far and tugged hard at your heart, the silent, breathless, yearning multitude, the uncanny sensation of peace. “I can feel a little of it yet,” she went on, dreamily. “While he spoke, this peculiar peace laid hold on me so fully that I wished — above all things — that I might possess it — forever.”
gibson_neuromancer_Neuromancer	1984	Mostly for you. And one certified psychopath name of Peter Riviera. Real ugly customer.” “Where’s he?” “Dunno. But he’s one sick fuck, no lie. I saw his profile.” She made a face. “Godawful.” She stood up and stretched, catlike. “So we got an axis going, boy? We’re together in this? Partners?” Case looked at her. “I gotta lotta choice, huh?” She laughed. “You got it, cowboy.” “The matrix has its roots in primitive arcade games,” said the voice-over, “in early graphics programs and military experimentation with cranial jacks.” On the Sony, a two-dimensional space war faded behind a forest of mathematically generated ferns, demonstrating the spacial possibilities of logarithmic spirals; cold blue military footage burned through, lab animals wired into test systems, helmets feeding into fire control circuits of tanks and war planes. “Cyberspace. A consensual hallucination experienced daily by billions of legitimate operators, in every nation, by children being taught mathematical concepts... A graphic representation of data abstracted from the banks of every computer in the human system. Unthinkable complexity. Lines of light ranged in the nonspace of the mind, clusters and constellations of data.
doerr_all_the_light_we_cannot_see_All_the_Light_We_Cannot_See	2015	But—?” Vermilion spots open and close in his vision. “Marie-Laure—” “She is not—?” Before he can shake his head, Madame Ruelle is lifting the hinged counter and ushering him out; she has him under the arm. The women in the queue are muttering, intrigued or scandalized or both. Madame Ruelle helps him onto the rue Robert Surcouf. The face of Etiennes watch appears to distend. Forty-one minutes? He can hardly do the math. Her hands grip his shoulder. “Where could she have gone?” Tongue so dry, thoughts so sluggish. “Sometimes . . . she visits . . . the sea. Before coming home.” “But the beaches are closed. The ramparts too.” She looks off over his head. “It must be something else.” They huddle in the middle of the street. Somewhere a hammer rings. War, Etienne thinks distantly, is a bazaar where lives are traded like any other commodity: chocolate or bullets or parachute silk. Has he traded all those numbers for Marie-Laure’s life? “No,” he whispers, “she goes to the sea.” “If they find the bread,” Madame Ruelle whispers, “we will all die.”
ivey_the_snow_child_The_Snow_Child	2013	The cabin smelled of warm, wet wool. “Did you hear me? What did you find?” He didn’t look up when he spoke, but instead turned from her and stumbled to their bedroom. “Nothing. I’m tired, Mabel. Too tired to talk.” He climbed beneath the covers and was soon snoring softly, leaving Mabel alone again by the woodstove. CHAPTER 11 Jack had always considered himself if not brave, then at least competent and sure. He was wary of true danger, of flighty horses that could break your back and farm tools that could sever limbs, but he had always scoffed at the superstitious and mystical. Alone in the depths of the wilderness, however, in the fading winter light, he had discovered in himself an animallike fear. What shamed him all the more was that he could not name it. If Mabel had asked what terrified him when he followed the girl into the mountains, he could only have answered with the timid uncertainty of a child scared of the dark. Disturbing thoughts whirled through his brain, stories he must have heard as a boy about forest hags and men who turned into bears. It wasn’t the girl that frightened him as much as the strange world of snow and rock and hushed trees that she navigated with ease.
james_fifty_shades_of_grey_Fifty_Shades_of_Grey	2012	“Yes,” 1 breathe, because my mouth is suddenly parched. I hear the ice clink against the glass, and he leans down and kisses me, pouring a delicious, crisp liquid into my mouth as he does. It’s white wine. It’s so unexpected, so hot, though it’s chilled and Christian’s lips are cool. “More?” he whispers. I nod. It tastes all the more divine because it’s been in his mouth. He leans down, and I drink another mouthful from his lips. . . oh my. “Let’s not go too far; we know your capacity for alcohol is limited, Anastasia.” I can’t help it. I grin, and he leans down to deliver another delicious mouthful. He shifts so he’s lying beside me, his erection at my hip. Oh, I want him inside me. “Is this nice?” he asks, but I hear the edge in his voice. I tense. He moves the glass again and leans down, kissing me and depositing a small shard of ice in my mouth with a little wine. He slowly and leisurely trails chilled kisses down the center of my body, from the base of my throat to between my breasts, down my torso to my belly.
naipaul_a_house_for_mr_biswas_A_House_for_Mr._Biswas	1967	‘Suppose I wanted to go to Port of Spain, and he didn’t. You think we’d quarrel about a thing like that? No. We would sit down and talk it over, and he would say, “All right, let us go.” Or I would say, “All right, we won’t go.” That’s the way we were, you know.’ She had grown almost maudlin, and Mr Biswas was trying to appear solemn while chewing. He chewed slowly and wondered whether he shouldn’t stop altogether; but whenever he stopped eating Mrs Tulsi stopped talking. ‘This house,’ Mrs Tulsi said, blowing her nose, wiping her eyes with her veil and waving a hand in a fatigued way, ‘this house - he built it with his own hands. Those walls aren’t concrete, you know. Did you know that?’ Mr Biswas went on eating. ‘They looked like concrete to you, didn’t they?’ ‘Yes, they looked like concrete.’ ‘It looks like concrete to everybody. But everybody is wrong. Those walls are really made of clay bricks. Clay bricks,’ she repeated, staring at Mr Biswas’s plate and waiting for him to say something. ‘Clay bricks!’ he said.
quinn_the_alice_network_The_Alice_Network	2017	He shook his head, hair falling over his eyes again. “She’s not one for judging people.” “Neither am I.” “You still shouldn’t be hanging around a bad apple like me.” “Finn, I’m a former good girl, and a current unwed mother-to-be. Eve’s a former spy, and a current drunk. You’re a former convict, and a current mechanic and driver and cooker of English breakfasts. You know why none of us judge?” I bumped his shoulder with mine until he finally looked down at me. “Because none of us have the goddamn right to look down our noses at anyone else’s sins.” He looked down at me with an invisible smile that began and ended in the corners of his eyes. I reached behind me and hoisted myself up to sit on the Lagon-da’s long hood. It put me almost level with Finn when he turned to face me, as I leaned forward to fit my mouth carefully, gently, against his. His lips were soft and his jaw rough, just like the first time I’d tried to kiss him. Just like the first time, his hands rose to my waist—but this time I broke off the kiss before he could move back.
collins_hollywood_husbands_Hollywood_Husbands	1986	“We’ll throw her right in the middle of the city dump.” She recognized Cheech’s voice. “Naw.” His brother talking. “The river’s better.” “Ya stupid fuckers,” snarled Bryan. “We coulda got a prostie for twenny bucks.” “You fuckin’ did it,” accused Cheech. “Ya fuckin’ smothered her to death.” If she had known fear before, it was nothing compared to now. Her skin crawled with clammy horror as she realized that when she lost consciousness, in their drunken state they must have thought she was dead and that they had killed her. And now they were disposing of her body. Shivering uncontrollably, she decided not to put them out of their misery. Twenty minutes later the truck ground to a halt. The three of them were still arguing, deciding on alibis and explanations in case anyone asked awkward questions. Cheech finally did his own summing up. “She was just a nobody— who’s gonna notice she’s not around anymore?” Grunts of agreement as they manhandled her body from the truck and flung it into a deep pit of garbage. As she fell, she knew the revenge she would take. And six weeks later she did. Lighting the first match was easy....
garwood_the_bride_The_Bride	1989	Jamie had sounded so pitifully forlorn. “Then don’t hate him,” he advised. “You ain’t any good at hating anyway. Your heart’s too tender, girl. Besides,” he continued as he nudged her farther ahead, “it ain’t so unordinary after all.” “What isn’t so unordinary?” “Many a bride goes to her wedding without knowing her mate.” “But those brides were English, Beak, marrying Englishmen.” “Hush, now,” Beak ordered, hearing the fear in her voice. “He’s a good man, this Kincaid. 1 took his measure, Jamie. He’ll treat you right.” “How would you know that?” Jamie asked. She tried to stop and turn to face Beak but he kept nudging her forward. “There’s that rumor, if you’ll remember, that he killed his first wife.” “And you believe it?” Her answer was immediate. “I don’t.” “Why not?” Jamie shrugged. “I can’t explain it,” she whispered. “I just think he wouldn’t. . .” She let out a sigh, then added, “You’ll think me daft, Beak, but his eyes . . .
rowling_harry_potter_and_the_sorcerers_stone_Harry_Potter_and_the_Sorcerer_s_Stone	1997	On the opposite side of the chamber was a heavy wooden door. “Do you think they’ll attack us if we cross the room?” said Ron. “Probably,” said Harry. “They don’t look very vicious, but I suppose if they all swooped down at once . . . well, there’s no other choice . . . I’ll run.” He took a deep breath, covered his face with his arms, and sprinted across the room. He expected to feel sharp beaks and claws tearing at him any second, but nothing happened. He reached the door untouched. He pulled the handle, but it was locked. The other two followed him. They tugged and heaved at the door, but it wouldn’t budge, not even when Hermione tried her Alohomora charm. “Now what?” said Ron. “These birds. . . they can’t be here just for decoration,” said Hermione. They watched the birds soaring overhead, glittering — glittering “They’re not birds!” Harry said suddenly. “They’re keys\ Winged keys — look carefully. So that must mean . . .” he looked around * H!z9 * #• * the chamber while the other two squinted up at the flock of keys. . . yes — look!
james_an_unsuitable_job_for_a_woman_An_Unsuitable_Job_for_a_Woman	1972	And do you really want the truth to come out in open court? Do you want everyone to know how your son died and who killed him? Is that what Mark himself would want?” “No. Mark never believed in punishment. Tell me what I have to do.” “We’ve got to work quickly and plan carefully. We have to trust each other and we have to be intelligent.” “We are intelligent. What must we do?” Cordelia took out her handkerchief and dropped it over the gun, took the weapon from Miss Learning and placed it on the desk. She grasped the woman’s thin wrist and pushed her protesting hand against Sir Ronald’s palm, pulling against the instinctive recoil, forcing the stiff but living fingers against the soft unresisting hand of the dead. “There may be firing residue. I don’t really know much about that, but the police may test for it. Now wash your hands and get me a pair of thin gloves. Quickly.” She went without a word. Left alone, Cordelia looked down at the dead scientist. He had fallen with his chin against the desk top and his arms swinging loosely at his sides, an awkward, uncomfortable-looking pose which gave him the appearance of peering malevolently over his desk.
tolkien_lord_of_the_rings_The_Fellowship_of_the_Ring	1954	The Swan passed on slowly to the hythe, and they turned their boats and followed it. There in the last end of Egladil upon the green grass the parting feast was held; but Frodo ate and drank little, heeding only the beauty of the Lady and her voice. She seemed no longer perilous or terrible, nor filled with hidden power. Already she seemed to him, as by men of later days Elves still at times are seen: present and yet remote, a living vision of that which has already been left far behind by the flowing streams of Time. After they had eaten and drunk, sitting upon the grass, Celebom spoke to them again of their journey, and lifting his hand he pointed south to the woods beyond the Tongue. ‘As you go down the water,’ he said, ‘you will find that the trees will fail, and you will come to a barren country. There the River flows in stony vales amid high moors, until at last after many leagues it comes to the tall island of the Tindrock, that we call Tol Brandir. There it casts its arms about the steep shores of the isle, and falls then with a great noise and smoke over the cataracts of Rauros down into the Nindalf, the Wetwang as it is called in your tongue.
fleming_from_russia_with_love_From_Russia_with_Love	1957	Should she call him back? No, that was out of the question. He had spoken as he had because he knew, and she knew, that every call, in and out of the building, was listened to or recorded. That was why he had not wasted a word. This was a State matter. With a message of this sort, you got rid of it as quickly as you could, in as few words as possible, and wiped your hands of it. You had got the dreadful card out of your hand. You had passed the Queen of Spades to someone else. Your hands were clean again. The girl put her knuckles up to her open mouth and bit on them, staring at the telephone. What did they want her for? What had she done? Desperately she cast her mind back, scrabbling through the days, the months, the years. Had she made some terrible mistake in her work and they had just discovered it? Had she made some remark against the State, some joke that had been reported back? That was always possible. But which remark? When? If it had been a bad remark, she would have felt a twinge of guilt or fear at the time. Her conscience was clear. Or was it? Suddenly she remembered.
miller_lamb_in_his_bosom_Lamb_in_His_Bosom	1934	She did not know what she would do when she was too old to whip one till he gave in to her. She was too worried up over many things to grieve over-much after Lonzo. She had cried for the little twins that she lost, she had cried for Caty who swallowed fire, but she had cried no great deal for Lonzo. She had too much work to do to sit and cry after him; there were too many noisy mouths to call after her and quarrel among themselves. But, oh, sometimes in the night when the house was still but for the clock’s ticking and the soft snoring of her children, she stretched her hand to the left of her where he had always slept, and her whole time of life seemed as empty as that little stretch of feather bed that he would never warm again. Never had he been much for kissing and fondling, but well Cean knew that he had loved her as a good man loves his wife—without any great change or much talk of it till one of them is put underground. For a time after Lonzo died Cean wished that she had been the one to go; but now she could see the wisdom of His ways. What in creation would Lonzo have done, left alone with this passel of youn-guns?
jackson_the_lottery_haunting_hill_house_we_have_always_lived_in_the_castle_The_Haunting_of_Hill_House	1959	“Think of the books Hugh Crain hacked apart to make this. Now here is a Goya etching; a horrible thing for a little girl to meditate upon.” “Underneath he has written,” Luke said, “under this ugly picture: ‘Honor thy father and thy mother, Daughter, authors of thy being, upon whom a heavy charge has been laid, that they lead their child in innocence and righteousness along the fearful narrow path to everlasting bliss, and render her up at last to her God a pious and a virtuous soul; reflect. Daughter, upon the joy in Heaven as the souls of these tiny creatures wing upward, released before they have learned aught of sin or faithlessness, and make it thine unceasing duty to remain as pure as these.’ ” “Poor baby,” Eleanor said, and gasped as Luke turned the page; Hugh Crain’s second moral lesson derived from a color plate of a snake pit, and vividly painted snakes writhed and twisted along the page, above the message, neady printed, and touched with gold: “Eternal damnation is the lot of mankind; neither tears, nor reparation, can undo Man’s heritage of sin. Daughter, hold apart from this world, that its lusts and ingratitudes corrupt thee not; Daughter, preserve thyself.”
marquand_the_late_george_apley_The_Late_George_Apley	1938	I do not think that this is a good thing, but I like to feel that you are with a Boston battery and that in the evenings you gather in your tents and talk about home and about the Club. That reminds me that your name will soon be passed on for the Province Club. Some of your friends at my suggestion are also doing what they can for you at the Berkley Club. I think you might get a little more forward here if you were to write something, say a paper on the social conditions in El Paso. I should be very pleased to have you read it as my guest at some meeting at Beacon Street next winter, and if you have trouble with your facts, there is a very useful man in the History Department at Harvard who would be glad to help you to assemble them. He helped me on the occasion last week when I read an address on preparedness on the Boston Common. Although of course the ideas were my own, I did not have time to get the facts about the Ancient and Honourable Artillery myself. I have been very busy here, rising at six in the morning, to prepare for my committee work before going to the office. There has been a great deal of trouble with the drains beneath the tennis court.
achebe_things_fall_apart_Things_Fall_Apart	1959	The young suitor, whose name was Ibe, smiled broadly and said to his father: "Do you hear that?" He then said to the others: "He will never admit that 1 am a good tapper." "He tapped three of my best palm trees to death," said his father, Ukegbu. "That was about five years ago," said Ibe, who had begun to pour out the wine, "before I learned how to tap." He filled the first horn and gave to his father. Then he poured out for the others. Okonkwo brought out his big horn from the goatskin bag, blew into it to remove any dust that might be there, and gave it to Ibe to fill. As the men drank, they talked about everything except the thing for which they had gathered. It was only after the pot had been emptied that the suitor's father cleared his voice and announced the object of their visit. Obierika then presented to him a small bundle of short broomsticks. Ukegbu counted them. "They are thirty?" he asked. Obierika nodded in agreement. 73 "We are at last getting somewhere," Ukegbu said, and then turning to his brother and his son he said: "Let us go out and whisper together."
sebold_the_lovely_bones_The_Lovely_Bones	2002	She would always feel me and think of me. I could see that, but there was no longer anything I could do. Ruth had been a girl haunted and now she would be a woman haunted. First by accident and now by choice. All of it, the story of my life and death, was hers if she chose to tell it, even to one person at a time. * * * It was late in Ruana and Ray’s visit when Samuel started talking about the gothic revival house that Lindsey and he had found along an overgrown section of Route 30. As he told Abigail about it in detail, describing how he had realized he wanted to propose to Lindsey and live there with her, Ray found himself asking, “Does it have a big hole in the ceiling of the back room and cool windows above the front door?” “Yes,” Samuel said, as my father grew alarmed. “But it can be fixed, Mr. Salmon. I’m sure of it.” “Ruth’s dad owns that,” Ray said. Everyone was quiet for a moment and then Ray continued. “He took out a loan on his business to buy up old places that aren’t already slated for destruction. He wants to restore them,” Ray said.
tyler_breathing_lessons_Breathing_Lessons	1989	His hair stood up in thick tufts, like wind-tossed grass. Maggie restrained herself from reaching out to smooth it. Unexpectedly, he reminded her of Ira. However different the two might be in other ways, they both had this notion that reading up on something, getting equipped for something, would put them in control. She considered going home for a while (it was nearly five o’clock) but she knew she would only fret and pace, so she stayed where she was and kept in touch by telephone. Daisy reported that Ira was fixing a pancake supper. “No green vegetable?” Maggie asked. “Where’s the green vegetable?” Ira got on the phone to assure her that he was serving spiced crab-apple rings on the side. “Spiced crab-apple rings are not green, Ira,” Maggie said. She felt herself growing weepy. She ought to be at home supervising her family’s nutrition; she ought to be storming the labor room to comfort Fiona; she ought to take Jesse in her arms and rock him because he was nothing but a child still, much too young for what was happening to him. But here she stood, clutching a salty-smelling receiver in a public phone hutch. Her stomach felt all knotted and tight.
blatty_the_exorcist_The_Exorcist	1971	Oddly muffled. The eerie sound of sleep in an oxygen tent. The Jesuit waited. Hoped for more. Nothing came. He rewound the tape, packed the tape recorder into its case, picked it up and took the reel of tape. He gave Regan a last look. Loose ends. Irresolute, he left the room and went downstairs. He found Chris in the kitchen. She was sitting somberly over coffee at the table with Sharon. As they saw him approach, they looked up at him with a questioning, anxious expectancy. Chris said quietly to Sharon, “Better go check on Regan. Okay?” Sharon took a final sip of coffee, nodded wanly at Karras and left. He sat down wearily at the table. “So what’s doin’?” Chris asked him, searching his eyes. About to answer, Karras waited as Karl entered quietly from the pantry and went over to the sink to scrub pots. Chris followed his gaze. “It’s okay,” she said softly. “Go ahead. What’s the drill?” “There were two personalities I hadn’t seen before. Well, no, one I guess I’d seen for just a moment, the one that sounds British. Is that anyone you know?” “Is that important?”
pitts_freeman_Freeman	2012	She makes his name a question. It feels as if she is trying out a word in some exotic new language. And then: “Why?” There is a tenderness in Honey’s smile. “For you,” she says. “For me?” It is the most absurd thing she has ever heard. She tries to laugh, but it comes out tears. She has trouble swallowing the idea down. She has never thought of herself as a woman someone would come searching for. “What you gon’ do?” asks Honey. “What should I do?” asks Tilda. “Go to him.” “I can’t do that.” “Why not?” “Marse Jim would kill me if I tried to get away from him. I saw him do it to two others.” Honey looks at her. “You just tried to kill yourself,” she says softly, “few weeks ago.” It is the first time they have spoken of it since that day. “That’s different,” Tilda says. Honey sighs. “All I know is, they’s a man out there lookin’ for you. You asked me once if anybody was lookin’ for me, and I told you I couldn’t feature it.
choi_american_woman_American_Woman	2004	She felt almost happy, to finally have vigorous work. Or perhaps she was happy to feel herself drawn in again by the life of the nation. Sometimes Watergate felt as surreal as a dream, because she had no one with whom to discuss it. No one beside her to gasp—really gasp—when Nixon’s ex-secretary let fall that everything was on tape. She had rushed out of the room, in her amazement actually scrambled down from her ladder and rushed from the room to the head of the stairs— and stopped there, hearing Dolly’s bland voice drifting in from the porch. Hearing teatime visitation in session, the sound of the landed who lived on this river. The sound of the “set,” anchored in ancient greatness, where even the dirt and the trees justified them. For them there was no vivid convulsion in the life of the nation. There was no odor of change on the air. There was not even the melancholy of national shame that the “average American” felt. Theirs was a nation transcending such temporal things. What must that be like, she had thought, turning back from the stairs with her brush in her hand. That complacence that said, I have no need to watch the strange signs, to scent change on the wind.
figiel_where_we_once_belonged_Where_We_Once_Belonged	1996	‘That girl has my heart, Agalelei. That girl is my heart.’ Siniva’s body is dead. Siniva’s agaga is dead too. Siniva’s agaga exists no more—not even metaphysically. Rotting inside the coffin-box is her body and her agaga... rotting with siapo. No more...she is no more. She is gone...gone to Salefe'e...gone to Salefe'e where suicide souls die... The village of Malaefou does not weep and the village of Malaefou does not mourn. It continues. It continues only with hymn singing and prayers after the conch shell curfew, evening meal, choir practice. Big Time Wrestling, Charlie’s Angels, Six Alillion Ddlar Alan___It continues as if Siniva never existed, as if she was never a part of Malaefou...the Malaefou she loved so dearly. So dearly that it pained her to see it drowning slowly in what she called Darkness, for that is how she defined Malaefou— and the whole of Samoa—by reversing everying. ‘We are not living in Lightness,’ she would say. ‘We are not. Lightness is dead. Lightness died that first day in 1830 when the breakers of the sky entered these shores, forcing us all to forget. . .to forget.. .to burn our gods.. .to kill our gods.. .to
barrett_servants_of_the_map_Servants_of_the_Map:_Stories	2003	8 Before Elizabeth had a house of her own, before Dr. Kopeckny arrived and changed the way they thought, Nora and her friends had their own ideas about the nature of consumption. Bessie had heard it was caused by perverted humors and hidden inflammations; Olive, that it ran in families and affected only those of a melancholy nature. Jane and Lillian had been taught by their mother that it rose directly from damp, cold air trapped inside a room crowded with people: a miasma, open the windows against a miasma. Their cousin thought, more straightforwardly, that dirt meant rot meant smells meant sickness: everything must be clean! Nora herself, as a girl in Ireland, had been told by her grand- mother that consumption arose from putrid phlegm, draining into the chest from the head. If you lit a dried cow patty and let it smoke, and then inhaled the smoke through a reed, you’d be cured. Or if you ate the cooked and powdered lungs of a fox, or the blood of a goat. The forequarter of a dog that had drowned, claimed one of her grandmother’s friends, would if boiled and made into a stew cure the sickest patient. One of Ned’s guests, a Dr. Fuller from Baltimore, ridiculed everyone’s theories but his own.
hijuelos_the_mambo_kings_play_songs_of_love_The_Mambo_Kings_Play_Songs_of_Love	1990	So, he was a little jealous. She forgave that; after all, he was an old man, even if he was a pretty old man. That’s what she had taken to calling him, he’d remember. “Dame un besito, mi viejito Undo. ” And whatever one could say about his current situation, that he worked as a superintendent and took small-time jobs here and there as a musician, he had been some kind of famous man. Even though she was thirty-five years old, she had still not lost her childhood awe for the crooners of his generation. And the man had even been on television. She knew the very episode of the I Love Lucy show that he and Nestor had appeared on: he’d even brought her a box of photographs to look at, and had given her one of himself with Arnaz and his poor dead brother. Proudly, she had shown it to people in her building. He was the kind of man who had done a lot in life. He didn’t just hang out, like so many others. He was wise and would be able to help her. Looking at pictures of him when he was young and a pretty boy made her sigh. Sometimes it killed her when she would think about young men.
trevor_felicias_journey_Felicia_s_Journey	1994	Hear their beautiful song and the children’s laughter filling the air! Smell the fragrance of those flowers, hear the rippling of the stream, feel the tingling warmth of the sun! Oh, for a taste of the fruit in that basket, for it is the best that the earth can produce, the very best, like everything that is seen and enjoyed in this glorious garden . . . The happy people, the flowers and animals and fruit, are brightly illustrated on the cover of the brochure. Flamingos stalk about, rabbits nibble grass but not the flowers. A child hugs a swan, yachts sail on a distant lake. ‘That, now, is the paradise earth,’ a black woman asserts, a long forefinger drawing Felicia’s attention to a trickling waterfall, to giraffes and then to cockatoos. The black woman is tall and slender, with rings on several of her fingers, and earrings. ‘That is the promise and the place,’ she states, ‘of the Father Lord.’ ‘Yes,’ Felicia agrees. ‘Come with us, child. You hear of the Flood, honey? Noah in his Ark? You hear of that?’ ‘Yes, I have.’ ‘The Flood is a proved event,’ the black woman reminds her.
matthews_red_sparrow_Red_Sparrow	2013	Boucher was ascending the power chain on the Hill, young to be a senator, but she knew she had earned her position on the Select Committee on Intelligence with fierce preparation and hard work. She sat on other committees as well, but none were as prestigious as SSCI. Twelve years ago she had been elected to Congress after a hardscrabble campaign in a Southern California district replete with defense and aerospace contractors. She became adept at appropriations and at holding the bag of money over peoples heads to get what she wanted. Ascending to senator had been the next logical step, and now, in her second term, as newly named vice chair, she had a hand in legislation, appropriations, and oversight within the Department of Defense, Department of Homeland Security, and the Intelligence Community. Abrasive, impatient, and abusive during committee hearings, she tolerated Defense for the commerce it brought to her home state. She recognized the political unassailability of DHS, which she privately thought was a collection of third-stringers operating in a world they scarcely understood, trying to do brain surgery while wearing catchers’ mitts. But it was for the Intelligence Community—the conglomerate of sixteen separate agencies—that Boucher reserved her most bitter, thin-lipped excoriation. Defense Intelligence organs—DLA and DH—did not concern her.
74_the_adventures_of_tom_sawyer	1876	The family were still at table, but they had finished breakfast. There was no voice of rebuke; but there were averted eyes; there was a silence and an air of solemnity that struck a chill to the culprit's heart. He sat down and tried to seem gay, but it was up-hill work; it roused no smile, no response, and he lapsed into silence and let his heart sink down to the depths. After breakfast his aunt took him aside, and Tom almost brightened in the hope that he was going to be flogged; but it was not so. His aunt wept over him and asked him how he could go and break her old heart so; and finally told him to go on, and ruin himself and bring her gray hairs with sorrow to the grave, for it was no use for her to try any more. This was worse than a thousand whippings, and Tom's heart was sorer now than his body. He cried, he pleaded for forgiveness, promised to reform over and over again, and then received his dismissal, feeling that he had won but an imperfect forgiveness and established but a feeble confidence. He left the presence too miserable to even feel revengeful toward Sid; and so the latter's prompt retreat through the back gate was unnecessary.
160_the_awakening_and_selected_short_stories	1899	And this time it was Robert Lebrun who presented himself. She attempted to rise; she could not have done so without betraying the agitation which mastered her at sight of him, so she fell back upon the stool, only exclaiming, “Why, Robert!” He came and clasped her hand, seemingly without knowing what he was saying or doing. “Mrs. Pontellier! How do you happen--oh! how well you look! Is Mademoiselle Reisz not here? I never expected to see you.” “When did you come back?” asked Edna in an unsteady voice, wiping her face with her handkerchief. She seemed ill at ease on the piano stool, and he begged her to take the chair by the window. She did so, mechanically, while he seated himself on the stool. “I returned day before yesterday,” he answered, while he leaned his arm on the keys, bringing forth a crash of discordant sound. “Day before yesterday!” she repeated, aloud; and went on thinking to herself, “day before yesterday,” in a sort of an uncomprehending way. She had pictured him seeking her at the very first hour, and he had lived under the same sky since day before yesterday; while only by accident had he stumbled upon her.
2807_to_have_and_to_hold	1899	Diccon, saddle his reverence's horse.” “Saddle him an thou wilt, friend,” said Master Sparrow, “for he and I have idled long enough, but I fear I cannot keep pace with this fair company. I and the horse are footing it together.” “He is not long for this world,” I remarked, eyeing his ill-favored steed, “but neither are we far from Jamestown. He'll last that far.” Master Sparrow shook his head, with a rueful countenance. “I bought him from one of the French vignerons below Westover,” he said. “The fellow was astride the poor creature, beating him with a club because he could not go. I laid Monsieur Crapaud in the dust, after which we compounded, he for my purse, I for the animal; since when the poor beast and I have tramped it together, for I could not in conscience ride him. Have you read me Aesop's fables, Captain Percy?” “I remember the man, the boy, and the ass,” I replied. “The ass came to grief in the end. Put thy scruples in thy pocket, man, and mount thy pale horse.” “Not I!” he said, with a smile.
2166_king_solomons_mines	1885	Indeed, in Kukuanaland, as among the Germans, the Zulus, and the Masai, every able-bodied man is a soldier, so that the whole force of the nation is available for its wars, offensive or defensive. As we travelled we were overtaken by thousands of warriors hurrying up to Loo to be present at the great annual review and festival, and more splendid troops I never saw. At sunset on the second day, we stopped to rest awhile upon the summit of some heights over which the road ran, and there on a beautiful and fertile plain before us lay Loo itself. For a native town it is an enormous place, quite five miles round, I should say, with outlying kraals projecting from it, that serve on grand occasions as cantonments for the regiments, and a curious horseshoe-shaped hill, with which we were destined to become better acquainted, about two miles to the north. It is beautifully situated, and through the centre of the kraal, dividing it into two portions, runs a river, which appeared to be bridged in several places, the same indeed that we had seen from the slopes of Sheba's Breasts. Sixty or seventy miles away three great snow-capped mountains, placed at the points of a triangle, started out of the level plain.
9830_the_beautiful_and_damned	1922	And if he had not hanged himself he had certainly come to the end of it. "At least," he concluded feebly, "I'm perfectly willing to be a war correspondent." But so was Gloria. They were both willing--anxious; they assured each other of it. The evening ended on a note of tremendous sentiment, the majesty of leisure, the ill health of Adam Patch, love at any cost. "Anthony!" she called over the banister one afternoon a week later, "there's some one at the door." Anthony, who had been lolling in the hammock on the sun-speckled south porch, strolled around to the front of the house. A foreign car, large and impressive, crouched like an immense and saturnine bug at the foot of the path. A man in a soft pongee suit, with cap to match, hailed him. "Hello there, Patch. Ran over to call on you." It was Bloeckman; as always, infinitesimally improved, of subtler intonation, of more convincing ease. "I'm awfully glad you did." Anthony raised his voice to a vine-covered window: "Glor-i-_a_! We've got a visitor!" "I'm in the tub," wailed Gloria politely.
155_the_moonstone	1868	I wondered in myself which it would be harder to do, if things went on in this manner--to bear Mr. Franklin Blake’s indifference to me, or to jump into the quicksand and end it for ever in that way? “It’s useless to ask me to account for my own conduct, at this time. I try--and I can’t understand it myself. “Why didn’t I stop you, when you avoided me in that cruel manner? Why didn’t I call out, ‘Mr. Franklin, I have got something to say to you; it concerns yourself, and you must, and shall, hear it?’ You were at my mercy--I had got the whip-hand of you, as they say. And better than that, I had the means (if I could only make you trust me) of being useful to you in the future. Of course, I never supposed that you--a gentleman--had stolen the Diamond for the mere pleasure of stealing it. No. Penelope had heard Miss Rachel, and I had heard Mr. Betteredge, talk about your extravagance and your debts. It was plain enough to me that you had taken the Diamond to sell it, or pledge it, and so to get the money of which you stood in need.
33_the_scarlet_letter	1850	"I have thought of death," said she--"have wished for it--would even have prayed for it, were it fit that such as I should pray for anything. Yet, if death be in this cup, I bid thee think again, ere thou beholdest me quaff it. See! it is even now at my lips." "Drink, then," replied he, still with the same cold composure. "Dost thou know me so little, Hester Prynne? Are my purposes wont to be so shallow? Even if I imagine a scheme of vengeance, what could I do better for my object than to let thee live--than to give thee medicines against all harm and peril of life--so that this burning shame may still blaze upon thy bosom?" As he spoke, he laid his long fore-finger on the scarlet letter, which forthwith seemed to scorch into Hester's breast, as if it had been red hot. He noticed her involuntary gesture, and smiled. "Live, therefore, and bear about thy doom with thee, in the eyes of men and women--in the eyes of him whom thou didst call thy husband--in the eyes of yonder child! And, that thou mayest live, take off this draught."
110_tess_of_the_durbervilles_a_pure_woman	1891	"I don't think so," said Tess coldly. "Well, there's your chance, whether or no; and I'm sure he wears a beautiful diamond ring!" "Yes," said little Abraham, brightly, from the window-bench; "and I seed it! and it did twinkle when he put his hand up to his mistarshers. Mother, why did our grand relation keep on putting his hand up to his mistarshers?" "Hark at that child!" cried Mrs Durbeyfield, with parenthetic admiration. "Perhaps to show his diamond ring," murmured Sir John, dreamily, from his chair. "I'll think it over," said Tess, leaving the room. "Well, she's made a conquest o' the younger branch of us, straight off," continued the matron to her husband, "and she's a fool if she don't follow it up." "I don't quite like my children going away from home," said the haggler. "As the head of the family, the rest ought to come to me." "But do let her go, Jacky," coaxed his poor witless wife. "He's struck wi' her--you can see that. He called her Coz!
44_the_song_of_the_lark	1915	Mr. Kronborg believed that big cities were places where people went to lose their identity and to be wicked. He himself, when he was a student at the Seminary--he coughed and opened his watch again. He knew, of course, that a great deal of business went on in Chicago, that there was an active Board of Trade, and that hogs and cattle were slaughtered there. But when, as a young man, he had stopped over in Chicago, he had not interested himself in the commercial activities of the city. He remembered it as a place full of cheap shows and dance halls and boys from the country who were behaving disgustingly. Dr. Archie drove up to the station about ten minutes before the train was due. His man tied the ponies and stood holding the doctor's alligator-skin bag--very elegant, Thea thought it. Mrs. Kronborg did not burden the doctor with warnings and cautions. She said again that she hoped he could get Thea a comfortable place to stay, where they had good beds, and she hoped the landlady would be a woman who'd had children of her own. “I don't go much on old maids looking after girls,” she remarked as she took a pin out of her own hat and thrust it into Thea's blue turban.
550_silas_marner	1861	It was one of my family did you the wrong--the more grief to me--and I feel bound to make up to you for it in every way. Whatever I can do for you will be nothing but paying a debt, even if I looked no further than the robbery. But there are other things I'm beholden--shall be beholden to you for, Marner." Godfrey checked himself. It had been agreed between him and his wife that the subject of his fatherhood should be approached very carefully, and that, if possible, the disclosure should be reserved for the future, so that it might be made to Eppie gradually. Nancy had urged this, because she felt strongly the painful light in which Eppie must inevitably see the relation between her father and mother. Silas, always ill at ease when he was being spoken to by "betters", such as Mr. Cass--tall, powerful, florid men, seen chiefly on horseback--answered with some constraint-- "Sir, I've a deal to thank you for a'ready. As for the robbery, I count it no loss to me. And if I did, you couldn't help it: you aren't answerable for it." "You may look at it in that way, Marner, but I never can; and I hope
1695_the_man_who_was_thursday_a_nightmare	1908	This is no time for ceremonial politeness, neither is it a time for ceremonial modesty. I set myself against Comrade Gregory as I would set myself against all the Governments of Europe, because the anarchist who has given himself to anarchy has forgotten modesty as much as he has forgotten pride (cheers). I am not a man at all. I am a cause (renewed cheers). I set myself against Comrade Gregory as impersonally and as calmly as I should choose one pistol rather than another out of that rack upon the wall; and I say that rather than have Gregory and his milk-and-water methods on the Supreme Council, I would offer myself for election--” His sentence was drowned in a deafening cataract of applause. The faces, that had grown fiercer and fiercer with approval as his tirade grew more and more uncompromising, were now distorted with grins of anticipation or cloven with delighted cries. At the moment when he announced himself as ready to stand for the post of Thursday, a roar of excitement and assent broke forth, and became uncontrollable, and at the same moment Gregory sprang to his feet, with foam upon his mouth, and shouted against the shouting. “Stop, you blasted madmen!” he cried, at the top of a voice that tore his throat.
2005_piccadilly_jim	1919	As to the rest of the appearance of this remarkable woman, her nose was stubby and aggressive, and her mouth had the coldly forbidding look of the closed door of a subway express when you have just missed the train. It bade you keep your distance on pain of injury. Mrs. Pett, though herself a strong woman, was conscious of a curious weakness as she looked at a female of the species so much deadlier than any male whom she had ever encountered: and came near feeling a half-pity for the unhappy wretches on whom this dynamic maiden was to be unleashed. She hardly knew how to open the conversation. Miss Trimble, however, was equal to the occasion. She always preferred to open conversations herself. Her lips parted, and words flew out as if shot from a machine-gun. As far as Mrs. Pett could observe, she considered it unnecessary to part her teeth, preferring to speak with them clenched. This gave an additional touch of menace to her speech. "Dafternoon," said Miss Trimble, and Mrs. Pett backed convulsively into the padded recesses of her chair, feeling as if somebody had thrown a brick at her. "Good afternoon," she said faintly. "Gladda meecher, siz Pett. Mr. Sturge semme up. Said y'ad job f'r me.
805_this_side_of_paradise	1920	Amory a little stiffly. “'The Life of St. Teresa,'” read Alec aloud. “Oh, my gosh!” “Say, Alec.” “What?” “Does it bother you?” “Does what bother me?” “My acting dazed and all that?” “Why, no--of course it doesn't _bother_ me.” “Well, then, don't spoil it. If I enjoy going around telling people guilelessly that I think I'm a genius, let me do it.” “You're getting a reputation for being eccentric,” said Alec, laughing, “if that's what you mean.” Amory finally prevailed, and Alec agreed to accept his face value in the presence of others if he was allowed rest periods when they were alone; so Amory “ran it out” at a great rate, bringing the most eccentric characters to dinner, wild-eyed grad students, preceptors with strange theories of God and government, to the cynical amazement of the supercilious Cottage Club. As February became slashed by sun and moved cheerfully into March, Amory went several times to spend week-ends with Monsignor; once he took Burne, with great success, for he took equal pride and delight in displaying them to each other.
2814_dubliners	1914	His blade of human knowledge, natural astuteness particularised by long association with cases in the police courts, had been tempered by brief immersions in the waters of general philosophy. He was well informed. His friends bowed to his opinions and considered that his face was like Shakespeare’s. When the plot had been disclosed to her, Mrs Kernan had said: “I leave it all in your hands, Mr Cunningham.” After a quarter of a century of married life, she had very few illusions left. Religion for her was a habit and she suspected that a man of her husband’s age would not change greatly before death. She was tempted to see a curious appropriateness in his accident and, but that she did not wish to seem bloody-minded, she would have told the gentlemen that Mr Kernan’s tongue would not suffer by being shortened. However, Mr Cunningham was a capable man; and religion was religion. The scheme might do good and, at least, it could do no harm. Her beliefs were not extravagant. She believed steadily in the Sacred Heart as the most generally useful of all Catholic devotions and approved of the sacraments. Her faith was bounded by her kitchen but, if she was put to it, she could believe also in the banshee and in the Holy Ghost.
876_life_in_the_ironmills_or_the_korl_woman	1861	“No.” “No? Where's Kit Small, then?” “Begorra! on the spools. Alleys behint, though we helped her, we dud. An wid ye! Let Deb alone! It's ondacent frettin' a quite body. Be the powers, an we'll have a night of it! there'll be lashin's o' drink,--the Vargent be blessed and praised for't!” They went on, the mulatto inclining for a moment to show fight, and drag the woman Wolfe off with them; but, being pacified, she staggered away. Deborah groped her way into the cellar, and, after considerable stumbling, kindled a match, and lighted a tallow dip, that sent a yellow glimmer over the room. It was low, damp,--the earthen floor covered with a green, slimy moss,--a fetid air smothering the breath. Old Wolfe lay asleep on a heap of straw, wrapped in a torn horse-blanket. He was a pale, meek little man, with a white face and red rabbit-eyes. The woman Deborah was like him; only her face was even more ghastly, her lips bluer, her eyes more watery. She wore a faded cotton gown and a slouching bonnet. When she walked, one could see that she was deformed, almost a hunchback.
174_the_picture_of_dorian_gray	1890	I had forgotten that. What sort of boy is he? If he is like his mother, he must be a good-looking chap." "He is very good-looking," assented Lord Henry. "I hope he will fall into proper hands," continued the old man. "He should have a pot of money waiting for him if Kelso did the right thing by him. His mother had money, too. All the Selby property came to her, through her grandfather. Her grandfather hated Kelso, thought him a mean dog. He was, too. Came to Madrid once when I was there. Egad, I was ashamed of him. The Queen used to ask me about the English noble who was always quarrelling with the cabmen about their fares. They made quite a story of it. I didn't dare show my face at Court for a month. I hope he treated his grandson better than he did the jarvies." "I don't know," answered Lord Henry. "I fancy that the boy will be well off. He is not of age yet. He has Selby, I know. He told me so. And ... his mother was very beautiful?" "Margaret Devereux was one of the loveliest creatures I ever saw, Harry.
3268_the_mysteries_of_udolpho	1794	'Yes, mademoiselle, he himself, though he made me promise not to tell; but how could one help, when one heard him ill spoken of? Ah! dear young lady, you may well weep, if you have behaved unkindly to him, for a more tender heart than his never young gentleman had. He found me out in my distress, when you was too far off to help me; and M. Quesnel refused to do so, and bade me go to service again--Alas! I was too old for that!--The Chevalier found me, and bought me this cottage, and gave me money to furnish it, and bade me seek out another poor woman to live with me; and he ordered his brother's steward to pay me, every quarter, that which has supported me in comfort. Think then, mademoiselle, whether I have not reason to speak well of the Chevalier. And there are others, who could have afforded it better than he: and I am afraid he has hurt himself by his generosity, for quarter day is gone by long since, and no money for me! But do not weep so, mademoiselle: you are not sorry surely to hear of the poor Chevalier's goodness?' 'Sorry!' said Emily, and wept the more. '
84_frankenstein_or_the_modern_prometheus	1823	I prepared myself for a multitude of reverses; my operations might be incessantly baffled, and at last my work be imperfect, yet when I considered the improvement which every day takes place in science and mechanics, I was encouraged to hope my present attempts would at least lay the foundations of future success. Nor could I consider the magnitude and complexity of my plan as any argument of its impracticability. It was with these feelings that I began the creation of a human being. As the minuteness of the parts formed a great hindrance to my speed, I resolved, contrary to my first intention, to make the being of a gigantic stature, that is to say, about eight feet in height, and proportionably large. After having formed this determination and having spent some months in successfully collecting and arranging my materials, I began. No one can conceive the variety of feelings which bore me onwards, like a hurricane, in the first enthusiasm of success. Life and death appeared to me ideal bounds, which I should first break through, and pour a torrent of light into our dark world. A new species would bless me as its creator and source; many happy and excellent natures would owe their being to me. No father could claim the gratitude of his child so completely as I should deserve theirs.
6053_evelina_or_the_history_of_a_young_ladys_entrance_into_the_world	1778	I fear I shall have tired you with reading them; but you will now have time to rest, for I shall find but little to say in future. And now, most honoured Sir, with all the follies and imperfections which I have thus faithfully recounted, can you, and with unabated kindness, suffer me to sign myself Your dutiful and most affectionate EVELINA? LETTER XXIV MR VILLARS TO EVELINA Berry Hill, April 22. HOW much do I rejoice that I can again address my letters to Howard Grove! My Evelina would have grieved had she known the anxiety of my mind during her residence in the great world. My apprehensions have been inexpressibly alarming; and your journal, at once exciting and relieving my fears, has almost wholly occupied me since the time of your dating it from London. Sir Clement Willoughby must be an artful designing man: I am extremely irritated at his conduct. The passion he pretends for you has neither sincerity nor honour; the manner and the opportunities he has chosen to declare it, are bordering upon insult. His unworthy behaviour after the opera, convinces me, that, had not your vehemence frightened him, Queen Ann Street would have been the last place whither he would have ordered his chariot. O, my child, how thankful am I for your escape!
41286_miss_marjoribanks	1866	She laid her head upon her pillow with that sweet sense of an approving conscience which accompanies the footsteps of the benefactors of their kind. But even Miss Marjoribanks's satisfaction was not without its drawbacks. She could not get out of her mind that unhappy abortive luncheon and all its horrors; not to speak of the possibility of her religious principles being impugned, which was dreadful in itself ("for people can stand a man being sceptical, you know," Miss Marjoribanks justly observed, "but everybody knows how unbecoming it is in a woman--and me who have such a respect for religion!"); there remained the still more alarming chance that Miss Bury, who was so narrow-minded, might see something improper in the presence of the two young men at Lucilla's maidenly table; for, to be sure, the Rector's sister was altogether incapable of grasping the idea that young men, like old men and the other less interesting members of the human family, were simple material for Miss Marjoribanks's genius, out of which she had a great result to produce. This was the dread that overshadowed the mind of Lucilla as she composed herself to rest after her fatigues. When she slept the sleep of the innocent, it still pursued her into her dreams.
215_the_call_of_the_wild	1903	“That settles it,” he announced. “We camp right here.” And camp they did, till Buck's ribs knitted and he was able to travel. That winter, at Dawson, Buck performed another exploit, not so heroic, perhaps, but one that put his name many notches higher on the totem-pole of Alaskan fame. This exploit was particularly gratifying to the three men; for they stood in need of the outfit which it furnished, and were enabled to make a long-desired trip into the virgin East, where miners had not yet appeared. It was brought about by a conversation in the Eldorado Saloon, in which men waxed boastful of their favorite dogs. Buck, because of his record, was the target for these men, and Thornton was driven stoutly to defend him. At the end of half an hour one man stated that his dog could start a sled with five hundred pounds and walk off with it; a second bragged six hundred for his dog; and a third, seven hundred. “Pooh! pooh!” said John Thornton; “Buck can start a thousand pounds.” “And break it out? and walk off with it for a hundred yards?” demanded Matthewson, a Bonanza King, he of the seven hundred vaunt.
271_black_beauty	1877	“He’ll never get over it,” said Jerry, “at least not for my work, so the farrier said this morning. He says he may do for carting, and that sort of work. It has put me out very much. Carting, indeed! I’ve seen what horses come to at that work round London. I only wish all the drunkards could be put in a lunatic asylum instead of being allowed to run foul of sober people. If they would break their own bones, and smash their own carts, and lame their own horses, that would be their own affair, and we might let them alone, but it seems to me that the innocent always suffer; and then they talk about compensation! You can’t make compensation; there’s all the trouble, and vexation, and loss of time, besides losing a good horse that’s like an old friend--it’s nonsense talking of compensation! If there’s one devil that I should like to see in the bottomless pit more than another, it’s the drink devil.” “I say, Jerry,” said the governor, “you are treading pretty hard on my toes, you know; I’m not so good as you are, more shame to me; I wish I was.”
599_vanity_fair	1848	The velvet-footed butler brought them their wine, and they composed themselves to a rubber after dinner, at which Major Dobbin would sometimes come and take a hand; and Mrs. Osborne would occasionally descend, when her patient above was settled for the night, and had commenced one of those lightly troubled slumbers which visit the pillow of old age. The old man clung to his daughter during this sickness. He would take his broths and medicines from scarcely any other hand. To tend him became almost the sole business of her life. Her bed was placed close by the door which opened into his chamber, and she was alive at the slightest noise or disturbance from the couch of the querulous invalid. Though, to do him justice, he lay awake many an hour, silent and without stirring, unwilling to awaken his kind and vigilant nurse. He loved his daughter with more fondness now, perhaps, than ever he had done since the days of her childhood. In the discharge of gentle offices and kind filial duties, this simple creature shone most especially. "She walks into the room as silently as a sunbeam," Mr. Dobbin thought as he saw her passing in and out from her father's room, a cheerful sweetness lighting up her face as she moved to and fro, graceful and noiseless.
238_dear_enemy	1915	Jane hasn't. Sadie's excellent ears are still intact. She is just squealing on principle; the way one does in a dentist's chair, under the belief that it is going to hurt the next instant. I really can't think of anything else to write except my news,--so here it is,--and I hope you'll like it. I am engaged to be married. My love to you both. S. McB. THE JOHN GRIER HOME, November 15. Dear Judy: Betsy and I are just back from a GIRO in our new motor car. It undoubtedly does add to the pleasure of institution life. The car of its own accord turned up Long Ridge Road, and stopped before the gates of Shadywell. The chains were up, and the shutters battened down, and the place looked closed and gloomy and rain-soaked. It wore a sort of fall of the House of Usher air, and didn't in the least resemble the cheerful house that used to greet me hospitably of an afternoon. I hate to have our nice summer ended. It seems as though a section of my life was shut away behind me, and the unknown future was pressing awfully close. Positively, I'd like to postpone that wedding another six months, but I'm afraid poor Gordon would make too dreadful a fuss.
2095_clotelle_a_tale_of_the_southern_states	1853	The clock on the calaboose had just struck nine on Monday morning, when hundreds of persons were seen threading the gates and doors of the negro-pen. It was the same gang that had the day previous been stepping to the tune and keeping time with the musical church bells. Their Bibles were not with them, their prayer-books were left at home, and even their long and solemn faces had been laid aside for the week. They had come to the man-market to make their purchases. Methodists were in search of their brethren. Baptists were looking for those that had been immersed, while Presbyterians were willing to buy fellow Christians, whether sprinkled or not. The crowd was soon gazing at and feasting their eyes upon the lovely features of Clotelle. "She is handsomer," muttered one to himself, "than the lady that sat in the pew next to me yesterday." "I would that my daughter was half so pretty," thinks a second. Groups are seen talking in every part of the vast building, and the topic on 'Change, is the "beautiful quadroon." By and by, a tall young man with a foreign face, the curling mustache protruding from under a finely-chiseled nose, and having the air of a gentleman, passes by.
2084_the_way_of_all_flesh	1903	Over and above these drawbacks the house had an ill name, by reason of the fact that the wife of the last occupant had hanged herself in it not very many weeks previously. She had set down a bloater before the fire for her husband's tea, and had made him a round of toast. She then left the room as though about to return to it shortly, but instead of doing so she went into the back kitchen and hanged herself without a word. It was this which had kept the house empty so long in spite of its excellent position as a corner shop. The last tenant had left immediately after the inquest, and if the owner had had it done up then people would have got over the tragedy that had been enacted in it, but the combination of bad condition and bad fame had hindered many from taking it, who like Ellen, could see that it had great business capabilities. Almost anything would have sold there, but it happened also that there was no second-hand clothes shop in close proximity so that everything combined in its favour, except its filthy state and its reputation. When I saw it, I thought I would rather die than live in such an awful place--but then I had been living in the Temple for the last five and twenty years.
1661_the_adventures_of_sherlock_holmes	1892	"I think, Miss Hunter, that we had better go in without you. Now, Watson, put your shoulder to it, and we shall see whether we cannot make our way in." It was an old rickety door and gave at once before our united strength. Together we rushed into the room. It was empty. There was no furniture save a little pallet bed, a small table, and a basketful of linen. The skylight above was open, and the prisoner gone. "There has been some villainy here," said Holmes; "this beauty has guessed Miss Hunter's intentions and has carried his victim off." "But how?" "Through the skylight. We shall soon see how he managed it." He swung himself up onto the roof. "Ah, yes," he cried, "here's the end of a long light ladder against the eaves. That is how he did it." "But it is impossible," said Miss Hunter; "the ladder was not there when the Rucastles went away." "He has come back and done it. I tell you that he is a clever and dangerous man. I should not be very much surprised if this were he whose step I hear now upon the stair.
217_sons_and_lovers	1913	For the rest, she drudged in the house, which work she would not have minded had not her clean red floor been mucked up immediately by the trampling farm-boots of her brothers. She madly wanted her little brother of four to let her swathe him and stifle him in her love; she went to church reverently, with bowed head, and quivered in anguish from the vulgarity of the other choir-girls and from the common-sounding voice of the curate; she fought with her brothers, whom she considered brutal louts; and she held not her father in too high esteem because he did not carry any mystical ideals cherished in his heart, but only wanted to have as easy a time as he could, and his meals when he was ready for them. She hated her position as swine-girl. She wanted to be considered. She wanted to learn, thinking that if she could read, as Paul said he could read, “Colomba”, or the “Voyage autour de ma Chambre”, the world would have a different face for her and a deepened respect. She could not be princess by wealth or standing. So she was mad to have learning whereon to pride herself. For she was different from other folk, and must not be scooped up among the common fry.
940_the_last_of_the_mohicans_a_narrative_of_1757	1826	The third day from the capture of the fort was drawing to a close, but the business of the narrative must still detain the reader on the shores of the “holy lake.” When last seen, the environs of the works were filled with violence and uproar. They were now possessed by stillness and death. The blood-stained conquerors had departed; and their camp, which had so lately rung with the merry rejoicings of a victorious army, lay a silent and deserted city of huts. The fortress was a smoldering ruin; charred rafters, fragments of exploded artillery, and rent mason-work covering its earthen mounds in confused disorder. A frightful change had also occurred in the season. The sun had hid its warmth behind an impenetrable mass of vapor, and hundreds of human forms, which had blackened beneath the fierce heats of August, were stiffening in their deformity before the blasts of a premature November. The curling and spotless mists, which had been seen sailing above the hills toward the north, were now returning in an interminable dusky sheet, that was urged along by the fury of a tempest. The crowded mirror of the Horican was gone; and, in its place, the green and angry waters lashed the shores, as if indignantly casting back its impurities to the polluted strand.
27_far_from_the_madding_crowd	1874	The rapidity of her glide into this position was that of a kingfisher -- its noiselessness that of a hawk. Gabriel's eyes had scarcely been able to follow her. The tall lank pony seemed used to such doings, and ambled along unconcerned. Thus she passed under the level boughs. The performer seemed quite at home anywhere between a horse's head and its tail, and the necessity for this abnormal attitude having ceased with the passage of the plantation, she began to adopt another, even more obviously convenient than the first. She had no side-saddle, and it was very apparent that a firm seat upon the smooth leather beneath her was un- attainable sideways. Springing to her accustomed perpendicular like a bowed sapling, and satisfying her, self that nobody was in sight, she seated herself in the manner demanded by the saddle, though hardly expected of the woman, and trotted off in the direction of Tewnell Mill. Oak was amused, perhaps a little astonished, and hanging up the hat in his hut, went again among his ewes. An hour passed, the girl returned, properly seated now, with a bag of bran in front of her. On nearing the cattle-shed she was met by a boy bringing a milking-pail, who held the reins of the pony whilst she slid off.
77_the_house_of_the_seven_gables	1851	Amid the disorder of such various ruin, it is not strange that a man of inconsiderable note, like Maule, should have trodden the martyr's path to the hill of execution almost unremarked in the throng of his fellow sufferers. But, in after days, when the frenzy of that hideous epoch had subsided, it was remembered how loudly Colonel Pyncheon had joined in the general cry, to purge the land from witchcraft; nor did it fail to be whispered, that there was an invidious acrimony in the zeal with which he had sought the condemnation of Matthew Maule. It was well known that the victim had recognized the bitterness of personal enmity in his persecutor's conduct towards him, and that he declared himself hunted to death for his spoil. At the moment of execution--with the halter about his neck, and while Colonel Pyncheon sat on horseback, grimly gazing at the scene Maule had addressed him from the scaffold, and uttered a prophecy, of which history, as well as fireside tradition, has preserved the very words. "God," said the dying man, pointing his finger, with a ghastly look, at the undismayed countenance of his enemy,--"God will give him blood to drink!" After the reputed wizard's death, his humble homestead had fallen an easy spoil into Colonel Pyncheon's grasp.
543_main_street	1920	A large brick-colored Norwegian takes off his shoes, grunts in relief, and props his feet in their thick gray socks against the seat in front of him. An old woman whose toothless mouth shuts like a mud-turtle’s, and whose hair is not so much white as yellow like moldy linen, with bands of pink skull apparent between the tresses, anxiously lifts her bag, opens it, peers in, closes it, puts it under the seat, and hastily picks it up and opens it and hides it all over again. The bag is full of treasures and of memories: a leather buckle, an ancient band-concert program, scraps of ribbon, lace, satin. In the aisle beside her is an extremely indignant parrakeet in a cage. Two facing seats, overflowing with a Slovene iron-miner’s family, are littered with shoes, dolls, whisky bottles, bundles wrapped in newspapers, a sewing bag. The oldest boy takes a mouth-organ out of his coat pocket, wipes the tobacco crumbs off, and plays “Marching through Georgia” till every head in the car begins to ache. The news-butcher comes through selling chocolate bars and lemon drops. A girl-child ceaselessly trots down to the water-cooler and back to her seat.
4276_north_and_south	1855	I am constantly wanting you to draw him for me, Margaret. It does not signify what he is doing; that very thing is prettiest, gracefulest, best. I think I love him a great deal better than my husband, who is getting stout, and grumpy,--what he calls "busy." No! he is not. He has just come in with news of such a charming pic-nic, given by the officers of the Hazard, at anchor in the bay below. Because he has brought in such a pleasant piece of news, I retract all I said just now. Did not somebody burn his hand for having said or done something he was sorry for? Well, I can't burn mine, because it would hurt me, and the scar would be ugly; but I'll retract all I said as fast as I can. Cosmo is quite as great a darling as baby, and not a bit stout, and as un-grumpy as ever husband was; only, sometimes he is very, very busy. I may say that without love--wifely duty--where was I?--I had something very particular to say, I know, once. Oh, it is this--Dearest Margaret!--you must come and see me; it would do Aunt Hale good, as I said before.
4217_a_portrait_of_the_artist_as_a_young_man	1916	She had passed through the dusk. And therefore the air was silent save for one soft hiss that fell. And therefore the tongues about him had ceased their babble. Darkness was falling. Darkness falls from the air. A trembling joy, lambent as a faint light, played like a fairy host around him. But why? Her passage through the darkening air or the verse with its black vowels and its opening sound, rich and lutelike? He walked away slowly towards the deeper shadows at the end of the colonnade, beating the stone softly with his stick to hide his revery from the students whom he had left: and allowed his mind to summon back to itself the age of Dowland and Byrd and Nash. Eyes, opening from the darkness of desire, eyes that dimmed the breaking east. What was their languid grace but the softness of chambering? And what was their shimmer but the shimmer of the scum that mantled the cesspool of the court of a slobbering Stuart. And he tasted in the language of memory ambered wines, dying fallings of sweet airs, the proud pavan, and saw with the eyes of memory kind gentlewomen in Covent Garden wooing from their balconies with sucking mouths and the pox-fouled wenches of the taverns and young wives that, gaily yielding to their ravishers, clipped and clipped again.
514_little_women	1868	He was tired of wandering about alone, and Amy's familiar presence seemed to give a homelike charm to the foreign scenes in which she bore a part. He rather missed the 'petting' he used to receive, and enjoyed a taste of it again, for no attentions, however flattering, from strangers, were half so pleasant as the sisterly adoration of the girls at home. Amy never would pet him like the others, but she was very glad to see him now, and quite clung to him, feeling that he was the representative of the dear family for whom she longed more than she would confess. They naturally took comfort in each other's society and were much together, riding, walking, dancing, or dawdling, for at Nice no one can be very industrious during the gay season. But, while apparently amusing themselves in the most careless fashion, they were half-consciously making discoveries and forming opinions about each other. Amy rose daily in the estimation of her friend, but he sank in hers, and each felt the truth before a word was spoken. Amy tried to please, and succeeded, for she was grateful for the many pleasures he gave her, and repaid him with the little services to which womanly women know how to lend an indescribable charm.
2489_moby_dick	1851	he demanded. "I was thinking of shipping." "Thou wast, wast thou? I see thou art no Nantucketer-- ever been in a stove boat?" "No, Sir, I never have." "Dost know nothing at all about whaling, I dare say--eh? "Nothing, Sir; but I have no doubt I shall soon learn. I've been several voyages in the merchant service, and I think that-" "Merchant service be damned. Talk not that lingo to me. Dost see that leg?--I'll take that leg away from thy stern, if ever thou talkest of the merchant service to me again. Marchant service indeed! I suppose now ye feel considerable proud of having served in those marchant ships. But flukes! man, what makes thee want to go a whaling, eh?--it looks a little suspicious, don't it, eh?--Hast not been a pirate, hast thou?-- Didst not rob thy last Captain, didst thou?--Dost not think of murdering the officers when thou gettest to sea?" I protested my innocence of these things. I saw that under the mask of these half humorous innuendoes, this old seaman, as an insulated Quakerish Nantucketer, was full of his insular prejudices, and rather distrustful of all aliens, unless they hailed from Cape Cod or the Vineyard.
472_the_house_behind_the_cedars	1900	" VII 'MID NEW SURROUNDINGS Warwick's residence was situated in the outskirts of the town. It was a fine old plantation house, built in colonial times, with a stately colonnade, wide verandas, and long windows with Venetian blinds. It was painted white, and stood back several rods from the street, in a charming setting of palmettoes, magnolias, and flowering shrubs. Rena had always thought her mother's house large, but now it seemed cramped and narrow, in comparison with this roomy mansion. The furniture was old-fashioned and massive. The great brass andirons on the wide hearth stood like sentinels proclaiming and guarding the dignity of the family. The spreading antlers on the wall testified to a mighty hunter in some past generation. The portraits of Warwick's wife's ancestors--high featured, proud men and women, dressed in the fashions of a bygone age--looked down from tarnished gilt frames. It was all very novel to her, and very impressive. When she ate off china, with silver knives and forks that had come down as heirlooms, escaping somehow the ravages and exigencies of the war time,--Warwick told her afterwards how he had buried them out of reach of friend or foe,--she thought that her brother must be wealthy, and she felt very proud of him and of her opportunity.
434_the_circular_staircase	1908	Miss Rachel, you can get a dozen detectives and put one on every stair in the house, and you'll never catch anything. There's some things you can't handcuff." Liddy was right. As soon as I could, I went up to the trunk-room, which was directly over my bedroom. The plan of the upper story of the house was like that of the second floor, in the main. One end, however, over the east wing, had been left only roughly finished, the intention having been to convert it into a ball-room at some future time. The maids' rooms, trunk-room, and various store-rooms, including a large airy linen-room, opened from a long corridor, like that on the second floor. And in the trunk-room, as Liddy had said, was a fresh break in the plaster. Not only in the plaster, but through the lathing, the aperture extended. I reached into the opening, and three feet away, perhaps, I could touch the bricks of the partition wall. For some reason, the architect, in building the house, had left a space there that struck me, even in the surprise of the discovery, as an excellent place for a conflagration to gain headway.
2775_the_good_soldier	1915	Nurse-maids do not travel first-class, and, that day, Edward travelled in a third-class carriage in order to prove to Leonora that he was capable of economies. I have said that the Kilsyte case came almost as a relief to the strained situation that then existed between them. It gave Leonora an opportunity of backing him up in a whole-hearted and absolutely loyal manner. It gave her the opportunity of behaving to him as he considered a wife should behave to her husband. You see, Edward found himself in a railway carriage with a quite pretty girl of about nineteen. And the quite pretty girl of about nineteen, with dark hair and red cheeks and blue eyes, was quietly weeping. Edward had been sitting in his corner thinking about nothing at all. He had chanced to look at the nurse-maid; two large, pretty tears came out of her eyes and dropped into her lap. He immediately felt that he had got to do something to comfort her. That was his job in life. He was desperately unhappy himself and it seemed to him the most natural thing in the world that they should pool their sorrows. He was quite democratic; the idea of the difference in their station never seems to have occurred to him. He began to talk to her.
432_the_ambassadors	1903	He guessed that for five seconds these words were on the point of coming; he heard them as clearly as if they had been spoken; but he presently knew they had just failed--knew it by a glance, quick and fine, from Madame de Vionnet, which told him that she too had felt them in the air, but that the point had luckily not been made in any manner requiring notice. This left her free to reply only to what had been said. "That the Boulevard Malesherbes may be common ground for us offers me the best prospect I see for the pleasure of meeting you again." "Oh I shall come to see you, since you've been so good": and Mrs. Pocock looked her invader well in the eyes. The flush in Sarah's cheeks had by this time settled to a small definite crimson spot that was not without its own bravery; she held her head a good deal up, and it came to Strether that of the two, at this moment, she was the one who most carried out the idea of a Countess. He quite took in, however, that she would really return her visitor's civility: she wouldn't report again at Woollett without at least so much producible history as that in her pocket.
8867_the_magnificent_ambersons	1918	But with this recollection a strange agitation came upon him. After all, had she not spoken to him? If his own unknown consciousness had told the “psychic's” unknown consciousness how to make the picture of the pretty brown-haired, brown-eyed lady, hadn't the picture been a true one? And hadn't the true Isabel--oh, indeed her very soul!--called to him out of his own true memory of her? And as the train roared through the darkened evening he looked out beyond his window, and saw her as he had seen her on his journey, a few days ago--an ethereal figure flying beside the train, but now it seemed to him that she kept her face toward his window with an infinite wistfulness. “To be kind!” If it had been Isabel, was that what she would have said? If she were anywhere, and could come to him through the invisible wall, what would be the first thing she would say to him? Ah, well enough, and perhaps bitterly enough, he knew the answer to that question! “To be kind”--to Georgie! A red-cap at the station, when he arrived, leaped for his bag, abandoning another which the Pullman porter had handed him. “Yessuh, Mist' Morgan.
1245_night_and_day	1919	“Though I don’t believe everything Henry says,” she added a little defensively. Down they went into Mr. Hilbery’s study, where they began to look among his books. So desultory was this examination that some fifteen minutes failed to discover the work they were in search of. “Must you read Macaulay’s History, Cassandra?” Katharine asked, with a stretch of her arms. “I must,” Cassandra replied briefly. “Well, I’m going to leave you to look for it by yourself.” “Oh, no, Katharine. Please stay and help me. You see--you see--I told William I’d read a little every day. And I want to tell him that I’ve begun when he comes.” “When does William come?” Katharine asked, turning to the shelves again. “To tea, if that suits you?” “If it suits me to be out, I suppose you mean.” “Oh, you’re horrid.... Why shouldn’t you--?” “Yes?” “Why shouldn’t you be happy too?” “I am quite happy,” Katharine replied. “I mean as I am. Katharine,” she said impulsively, “do let’s be married on the same day.”
3457_the_man_of_the_forest	1919	that was awful! Then the bear went up--there.... And you came.” “Bo's followin' the hound!” ejaculated Dale. And, lifting his hands to his mouth, he sent out a stentorian yell that rolled up the slope, rang against the cliffs, pealed and broke and died away. Then he waited, listening. From far up the slope came a faint, wild cry, high-pitched and sweet, to create strange echoes, floating away to die in the ravines. “She's after him!” declared Dale, grimly. “Bo's got your rifle,” said Helen. “Oh, we must hurry.” “You go back,” ordered Dale, wheeling his horse. “No!” Helen felt that word leave her lips with the force of a bullet. Dale spurred Ranger and took to the open slope. Helen kept at his heels until timber was reached. Here a steep trail led up. Dale dismounted. “Horse tracks--bear tracks--dog tracks,” he said, bending over. “We'll have to walk up here. It'll save our horses an' maybe time, too.” “Is Bo riding up there?” asked Helen, eying the steep ascent. “She sure is.”
120_treasure_island	1883	And he pinched me the third time with the same air of cleverness. "And when Ben Gunn is wanted, you know where to find him, Jim. Just wheer you found him today. And him that comes is to have a white thing in his hand, and he's to come alone. Oh! And you'll say this: 'Ben Gunn,' says you, 'has reasons of his own.'" "Well," said I, "I believe I understand. You have something to propose, and you wish to see the squire or the doctor, and you're to be found where I found you. Is that all?" "And when? says you," he added. "Why, from about noon observation to about six bells." "Good," said I, "and now may I go?" "You won't forget?" he inquired anxiously. "Precious sight, and reasons of his own, says you. Reasons of his own; that's the mainstay; as between man and man. Well, then"--still holding me--"I reckon you can go, Jim. And, Jim, if you was to see Silver, you wouldn't go for to sell Ben Gunn? Wild horses wouldn't draw it from you?
730_oliver_twist	1838	'Of course the lady knows that, don't she?' demanded Mr. Blathers. 'Always interrupting, you are, partner! This here Conkey Chickweed, miss, kept a public-house over Battlebridge way, and he had a cellar, where a good many young lords went to see cock-fighting, and badger-drawing, and that; and a wery intellectual manner the sports was conducted in, for I've seen 'em off'en. He warn't one of the family, at that time; and one night he was robbed of three hundred and twenty-seven guineas in a canvas bag, that was stole out of his bedroom in the dead of night, by a tall man with a black patch over his eye, who had concealed himself under the bed, and after committing the robbery, jumped slap out of window: which was only a story high. He was wery quick about it. But Conkey was quick, too; for he fired a blunderbuss arter him, and roused the neighbourhood. They set up a hue-and-cry, directly, and when they came to look about 'em, found that Conkey had hit the robber; for there was traces of blood, all the way to some palings a good distance off; and there they lost 'em.
16357_mary_a_fiction	1788	I have been wounded by ingratitude; from every one it has something of the serpent's tooth. "When overwhelmed by sorrow, I have met unkindness; I looked for some one to have pity on me; but found none!--The healing balm of sympathy is denied; I weep, a solitary wretch, and the hot tears scald my cheeks. I have not the medicine of life, the dear chimera I have so often chased, a friend. Shade of my loved Ann! dost thou ever visit thy poor Mary? Refined spirit, thou wouldst weep, could angels weep, to see her struggling with passions she cannot subdue; and feelings which corrode her small portion of comfort!" She could not write any more; she wished herself far distant from all human society; a thick gloom spread itself over her mind: but did not make her forget the very beings she wished to fly from. She sent for the poor woman she found in the garret; gave her money to clothe herself and children, and buy some furniture for a little hut, in a large garden, the master of which agreed to employ her husband, who had been bred a gardener. Mary promised to visit the family, and see their new abode when she was able to go out. CHAP. XXIV.
345_dracula	1897	* * * * * _30 September._--The station-master was good enough to give me a line to his old companion the station-master at King's Cross, so that when I arrived there in the morning I was able to ask him about the arrival of the boxes. He, too, put me at once in communication with the proper officials, and I saw that their tally was correct with the original invoice. The opportunities of acquiring an abnormal thirst had been here limited; a noble use of them had, however, been made, and again I was compelled to deal with the result in an _ex post facto_ manner. From thence I went on to Carter Paterson's central office, where I met with the utmost courtesy. They looked up the transaction in their day-book and letter-book, and at once telephoned to their King's Cross office for more details. By good fortune, the men who did the teaming were waiting for work, and the official at once sent them over, sending also by one of them the way-bill and all the papers connected with the delivery of the boxes at Carfax. Here again I found the tally agreeing exactly; the carriers' men were able to supplement the paucity of the written words with a few details.
6593_history_of_tom_jones_a_foundling	1749	And at last gave him a little horse to make him amends; again repeating his sorrow for what had past. Tom's guilt now flew in his face more than any severity could make it. He could more easily bear the lashes of Thwackum, than the generosity of Allworthy. The tears burst from his eyes, and he fell upon his knees, crying, “Oh, sir, you are too good to me. Indeed you are. Indeed I don't deserve it.” And at that very instant, from the fulness of his heart, had almost betrayed the secret; but the good genius of the gamekeeper suggested to him what might be the consequence to the poor fellow, and this consideration sealed his lips. Thwackum did all he could to persuade Allworthy from showing any compassion or kindness to the boy, saying, “He had persisted in an untruth;” and gave some hints, that a second whipping might probably bring the matter to light. But Mr Allworthy absolutely refused to consent to the experiment. He said, the boy had suffered enough already for concealing the truth, even if he was guilty, seeing that he could have no motive but a mistaken point of honour for so doing. “Honour!” cryed Thwackum, with some warmth, “mere stubbornness and obstinacy!
351_of_human_bondage	1915	"I suppose she 'adn't any trouble with a man, 'ad she? You know what I mean, Paris and all that. She might 'ave done it so as not to disgrace herself." Philip felt himself reddening and cursed his weakness. Price's keen little eyes seemed to suspect him of an intrigue. "I believe your sister to have been perfectly virtuous," he answered acidly. "She killed herself because she was starving." "Well, it's very 'ard on her family, Mr. Carey. She only 'ad to write to me. I wouldn't have let my sister want." Philip had found the brother's address only by reading the letter in which he refused a loan; but he shrugged his shoulders: there was no use in recrimination. He hated the little man and wanted to have done with him as soon as possible. Albert Price also wished to get through the necessary business quickly so that he could get back to London. They went to the tiny room in which poor Fanny had lived. Albert Price looked at the pictures and the furniture. "I don't pretend to know much about art," he said. "I suppose these pictures would fetch something, would they?" "Nothing," said Philip.
969_the_tenant_of_wildfell_hall	1848	talk!—I know you don’t mean it; it’s quite out of the question,’ said my mother, getting up, and bustling out of the room, under pretence of household business, in order to escape the contradiction that was trembling on my tongue. After that Rose favoured me with further particulars respecting Mrs. Graham. Her appearance, manners, and dress, and the very furniture of the room she inhabited, were all set before me, with rather more clearness and precision than I cared to see them; but, as I was not a very attentive listener, I could not repeat the description if I would. The next day was Saturday; and, on Sunday, everybody wondered whether or not the fair unknown would profit by the vicar’s remonstrance, and come to church. I confess I looked with some interest myself towards the old family pew, appertaining to Wildfell Hall, where the faded crimson cushions and lining had been unpressed and unrenewed so many years, and the grim escutcheons, with their lugubrious borders of rusty black cloth, frowned so sternly from the wall above. And there I beheld a tall, lady-like figure, clad in black. Her face was towards me, and there was something in it which, once seen, invited me to look again.
1023_bleak_house	1852	I was the happiest of the happy. It was at this time that my guardian joined us and asked Ada when she would come home. "Both houses are your home, my dear," said he, "but the older Bleak House claims priority. When you and my boy are strong enough to do it, come and take possession of your home." Ada called him "her dearest cousin, John." But he said, no, it must be guardian now. He was her guardian henceforth, and the boy's; and he had an old association with the name. So she called him guardian, and has called him guardian ever since. The children know him by no other name. I say the children; I have two little daughters. It is difficult to believe that Charley (round-eyed still, and not at all grammatical) is married to a miller in our neighbourhood; yet so it is; and even now, looking up from my desk as I write early in the morning at my summer window, I see the very mill beginning to go round. I hope the miller will not spoil Charley; but he is very fond of her, and Charley is rather vain of such a match, for he is well to do and was in great request.
2852_the_hound_of_the_baskervilles	1902	“In that case the waiter must have placed it there while we were lunching.” The German was sent for but professed to know nothing of the matter, nor could any inquiry clear it up. Another item had been added to that constant and apparently purposeless series of small mysteries which had succeeded each other so rapidly. Setting aside the whole grim story of Sir Charles’s death, we had a line of inexplicable incidents all within the limits of two days, which included the receipt of the printed letter, the black-bearded spy in the hansom, the loss of the new brown boot, the loss of the old black boot, and now the return of the new brown boot. Holmes sat in silence in the cab as we drove back to Baker Street, and I knew from his drawn brows and keen face that his mind, like my own, was busy in endeavouring to frame some scheme into which all these strange and apparently disconnected episodes could be fitted. All afternoon and late into the evening he sat lost in tobacco and thought. Just before dinner two telegrams were handed in. The first ran: Have just heard that Barrymore is at the Hall. BASKERVILLE. The second: Visited twenty-three hotels as directed, but sorry, to report unable to trace cut sheet of Times.
4051_lady_bridget_in_the_nevernever_land_a_story_of_australian_life	1915	She brought them cooked meat, bread and a ration of tea and sugar, provided them with a pair of blankets, and found for Wombo some old moleskins, a shirt, and a pair of boots, while Oola almost forgot the medicine man's evil spell in her puzzled delight over a lacey undergarment and a discarded kimono dressing-grown, which had been part of Lady Bridget's trousseau. That excitement over, the lonely mistress of Moongarr went back to her own habitation. She ate her solitary dinner and paced the veranda till darkness fell and the haunted loneliness became an almost unbearable oppression. Vast plains, distant ranges, gidia scrub and the far horizon melted into an illimitable shadow. The world seemed boundless as the starry sky--and yet she was in prison! She had longed for the freedom of the wild, and her life was more circumscribed than ever. A phrase in an Australian poem, that had struck her when she had read it not long ago came back upon her with poignant meaning. 'Eucalyptic cloisterdom'--that was the phrase, and it was this to which she had condemned herself. The gum trees enclosed for her one immense cell and she had become utterly weary of her mental and her spiritual incarceration. Oh! for the sting of love's strong emotion to break the monotony.
2641_a_room_with_a_view	1908	Very glad to see you, and that you are taking George for a bathe. Very glad to hear that your sister is going to marry. Marriage is a duty. I am sure that she will be happy, for we know Mr. Vyse, too. He has been most kind. He met us by chance in the National Gallery, and arranged everything about this delightful house. Though I hope I have not vexed Sir Harry Otway. I have met so few Liberal landowners, and I was anxious to compare his attitude towards the game laws with the Conservative attitude. Ah, this wind! You do well to bathe. Yours is a glorious country, Honeychurch!” “Not a bit!” mumbled Freddy. “I must--that is to say, I have to--have the pleasure of calling on you later on, my mother says, I hope.” “CALL, my lad? Who taught us that drawing-room twaddle? Call on your grandmother! Listen to the wind among the pines! Yours is a glorious country.” Mr. Beebe came to the rescue. “Mr. Emerson, he will call, I shall call; you or your son will return our calls before ten days have elapsed. I trust that you have realized about the ten days’ interval.
113_the_secret_garden	1911	"Not tha'," he said. "Nowt o' th' sort. What's tha' been doin' with thysel'--hidin' out o' sight an' lettin' folk think tha' was cripple an' half-witted?" "Half-witted!" said Colin angrily. "Who thought that?" "Lots o' fools," said Ben. "Th' world's full o' jackasses brayin' an' they never bray nowt but lies. What did tha' shut thysel' up for?" "Everyone thought I was going to die," said Colin shortly. "I'm not!" And he said it with such decision Ben Weatherstaff looked him over, up and down, down and up. "Tha' die!" he said with dry exultation. "Nowt o' th' sort! Tha's got too much pluck in thee. When I seed thee put tha' legs on th' ground in such a hurry I knowed tha' was all right. Sit thee down on th' rug a bit young Mester an' give me thy orders." There was a queer mixture of crabbed tenderness and shrewd understanding in his manner. Mary had poured out speech as rapidly as she could as they had come down the Long Walk.
5230_the_invisible_man_a_grotesque_romance	1897	I felt it awkwardly, and threw it on the floor. I had a little trouble finding it again. "And then came a curious experience. I heard a miaow behind me, and turning, saw a lean white cat, very dirty, on the cistern cover outside the window. A thought came into my head. 'Everything ready for you,' I said, and went to the window, opened it, and called softly. She came in, purring--the poor beast was starving--and I gave her some milk. All my food was in a cupboard in the corner of the room. After that she went smelling round the room, evidently with the idea of making herself at home. The invisible rag upset her a bit; you should have seen her spit at it! But I made her comfortable on the pillow of my truckle-bed. And I gave her butter to get her to wash." "And you processed her?" "I processed her. But giving drugs to a cat is no joke, Kemp! And the process failed." "Failed!" "In two particulars. These were the claws and the pigment stuff, what is it?--at the back of the eye in a cat. You know?" "_Tapetum_."
12677_personality_plus_some_experiences_of_emma_mcchesney_and_her_son_jock	1914	Which to emphasize? "H--m, novelty campaign, in my opinion," said Hopper, breaking one of his long silences. "There's nothing new in petticoats themselves, you know. You've got to give 'em a new angle." "Yep," agreed Hupp. "Start out with a feature skirt. Might illustrate with one of those freak drawings they're crazy about now--slinky figure, you know, hollow-chested, one foot trailing, and all that. They're crazy, but they do attract attention, no doubt of that." Bartholomew Berg turned his head slowly. "What's your opinion, Mrs. McChesney?" he asked. "I--I'm afraid I haven't any," said Emma McChesney listlessly. T.A. Buck stared at her in dismay and amazement. "How about you, Mr. Buck?" "Why--I--er--of course this advertising game's new to me. I'm really leaving it in your hands. I really thought that Mrs. McChesney's idea was to make a point of the fact that these petticoats were not freak petticoats, but skirts for the everyday women. She gave me what I thought was a splendid argument a week ago." He turned to her helplessly. Mrs. McChesney sat silent.
711_allan_quatermain	1887	We all had our revolvers on--for though we had been politely disarmed of our guns on leaving the palace, of course these people did not know what a revolver was. Umslopogaas, too, had his axe, of which no effort had been made to deprive him, and now he whirled it round his head and sent his piercing Zulu war-shout echoing up the marble walls in fine defiant fashion. Next second, the priests, baffled of their prey, had drawn swords from beneath their white robes and were leaping on us like hounds upon a stag at bay. I saw that, dangerous as action might be, we must act or be lost, so as the first man came bounding along--and a great tall fellow he was--I sent a heavy revolver ball through him, and down he fell at the mouth of the shaft, and slid, shrieking frantically, into the fiery gulf that had been prepared for us. Whether it was his cries, or the, to them, awful sound and effect of the pistol shot, or what, I know not, but the other priests halted, paralysed and dismayed, and before they could come on again Sorais had called out something, and we, together with the two Queens and most of the courtiers, were being surrounded with a wall of armed men.
95_the_prisoner_of_zenda	1894	He was sullen, and afraid; but, to say truth, after young Rupert’s exploit, we also had our fears, and, if he got as far as possible from Sapt’s formidable six-shooter, Sapt kept him as far as he could from me. Moreover, when he came in his hands were bound, but that I would not suffer. I need not stay to recount the safeguards and rewards we promised the fellow--all of which were honourably observed and paid, so that he lives now in prosperity (though where I may not mention); and we were the more free inasmuch as we soon learnt that he was rather a weak man than a wicked, and had acted throughout this matter more from fear of the duke and of his own brother Max than for any love of what was done. But he had persuaded all of his loyalty; and though not in their secret counsels, was yet, by his knowledge of their dispositions within the Castle, able to lay bare before us the very heart of their devices. And here, in brief, is his story: Below the level of the ground in the Castle, approached by a flight of stone steps which abutted on the end of the drawbridge, were situated two small rooms, cut out of the rock itself.
233_sister_carrie_a_novel	1900	Carrie looked out through the window into the busy street. There it was, the admirable, great city, so fine when you are not poor. An elegant coach, with a prancing pair of bays, passed by, carrying in its upholstered depths a young lady. “What will you have if you go back?” asked Drouet. There was no subtle undercurrent to the question. He imagined that she would have nothing at all of the things he thought worth while. Carrie sat still, looking out. She was wondering what she could do. They would be expecting her to go home this week. Drouet turned to the subject of the clothes she was going to buy. “Why not get yourself a nice little jacket? You've got to have it. I'll loan you the money. You needn't worry about taking it. You can get yourself a nice room by yourself. I won't hurt you.” Carrie saw the drift, but could not express her thoughts. She felt more than ever the helplessness of her case. “If I could only get something to do,” she said. “Maybe you can,” went on Drouet, “if you stay here. You can't if you go away. They won't let you stay out there.
76_adventures_of_huckleberry_finn	1884	The two young men looked dark, but never said nothing. Miss Sophia she turned pale, but the color come back when she found the man warn't hurt. Soon as I could get Buck down by the corn-cribs under the trees by ourselves, I says: “Did you want to kill him, Buck?” “Well, I bet I did.” “What did he do to you?” “Him? He never done nothing to me.” “Well, then, what did you want to kill him for?” “Why, nothing--only it's on account of the feud.” “What's a feud?” “Why, where was you raised? Don't you know what a feud is?” “Never heard of it before--tell me about it.” “Well,” says Buck, “a feud is this way: A man has a quarrel with another man, and kills him; then that other man's brother kills _him_; then the other brothers, on both sides, goes for one another; then the _cousins_ chip in--and by and by everybody's killed off, and there ain't no more feud. But it's kind of slow, and takes a long time.”
502_desert_gold	1913	The red haze became a transparent veil before his eyes. Sinister, evil, brooding, waiting, seemed that yawning abyss. Ladd staggered along the trail, at times he crawled. The Yaqui gained; he might have had wings; he leaped from jagged crust to jagged crust; his sure-footedness was a wonderful thing. But for Gale the marvel of that endless period of watching was the purpose of the bandit Rojas. He had now no weapon. Gale's glass made this fact plain. There was death behind him, death below him, death before him, and though he could not have known it, death above him. He never faltered--never made a misstep upon the narrow, flinty trail. When he reached the lower end of the level ledge Gale's poignant doubt became a certainty. Rojas had seen Mercedes. It was incredible, yet Gale believed it. Then, his heart clamped as in an icy vise, Gale threw forward the Remington, and sinking on one knee, began to shoot. He emptied the magazine. Puffs of dust near Rojas did not even make him turn. As Gale began to reload he was horror-stricken by a low cry from Thorne. The cavalryman had recovered consciousness. He was half raised, pointing with shaking hand at the opposite ledge.
1400_great_expectations	1861	“You're as proud of it as Punch; ain't you, Aged?” said Wemmick, contemplating the old man, with his hard face really softened; “there's a nod for you;” giving him a tremendous one; “there's another for you;” giving him a still more tremendous one; “you like that, don't you? If you're not tired, Mr. Pip--though I know it's tiring to strangers--will you tip him one more? You can't think how it pleases him.” I tipped him several more, and he was in great spirits. We left him bestirring himself to feed the fowls, and we sat down to our punch in the arbor; where Wemmick told me, as he smoked a pipe, that it had taken him a good many years to bring the property up to its present pitch of perfection. “Is it your own, Mr. Wemmick?” “O yes,” said Wemmick, “I have got hold of it, a bit at a time. It's a freehold, by George!” “Is it indeed? I hope Mr. Jaggers admires it?” “Never seen it,” said Wemmick. “Never heard of it. Never seen the Aged. Never heard of him.
78_tarzan_of_the_apes	1912	The second day a fever had come and D'Arnot thought that it meant infection and he knew that he would die. An idea came to him. He wondered why he had not thought of it before. He called Tarzan and indicated by signs that he would write, and when Tarzan had fetched the bark and pencil, D'Arnot wrote: Can you go to my people and lead them here? I will write a message that you may take to them, and they will follow you. Tarzan shook his head and taking the bark, wrote: I had thought of that--the first day; but I dared not. The great apes come often to this spot, and if they found you here, wounded and alone, they would kill you. D'Arnot turned on his side and closed his eyes. He did not wish to die; but he felt that he was going, for the fever was mounting higher and higher. That night he lost consciousness. For three days he was in delirium, and Tarzan sat beside him and bathed his head and hands and washed his wounds. On the fourth day the fever broke as suddenly as it had come, but it left D'Arnot a shadow of his former self, and very weak. Tarzan had to lift him that he might drink from the gourd.
4300_ulysses	1922	Gob, if he got that lottery ticket on the side of his poll he’d remember the gold cup, he would so, but begob the citizen would have been lagged for assault and battery and Joe for aiding and abetting. The jarvey saved his life by furious driving as sure as God made Moses. What? O, Jesus, he did. And he let a volley of oaths after him. —Did I kill him, says he, or what? And he shouting to the bloody dog: —After him, Garry! After him, boy! And the last we saw was the bloody car rounding the corner and old sheepsface on it gesticulating and the bloody mongrel after it with his lugs back for all he was bloody well worth to tear him limb from limb. Hundred to five! Jesus, he took the value of it out of him, I promise you. When, lo, there came about them all a great brightness and they beheld the chariot wherein He stood ascend to heaven. And they beheld Him in the chariot, clothed upon in the glory of the brightness, having raiment as of the sun, fair as the moon and terrible that for awe they durst not look upon Him. And there came a voice out of heaven, calling: Elijah! Elijah!
18581_adrift_in_new_york_tom_and_florence_braving_the_world	1904	"I shall try to secure a reporter's berth on one of the daily papers-- the _Call_ or _Chronicle_. I will wait a few days, however, as I have a few hundred dollars by me, and can afford to take a little time to look around." "I wish I were as well provided; but I have less than twenty-five dollars." "Don't worry about that, Arthur," said Randolph, laying his hand affectionately on the boy's shoulder. "I shall not allow you to want." "Thank you, Mr. Leslie," said Dodger, gratefully. "It's something new to me to have a friend like you. But I don't want to be any expense to you. I am large enough and strong enough to earn my own living." "True; and I feel sure you will have a chance in this enterprising city." They bought copies of the day's papers, and Dodger looked eagerly over the advertising columns. At length he saw an advertisement that read as follows: WANTED--A young man of 18 or 20 to assist in the office of a local express. Inquire at No. -- ---- St." "Do you think I would answer for such a place?"
32_herland	1915	A still day--on the edge of the world, their world. The two of us, gazing out over the far dim forestland below, talking of heaven and earth and human life, and of my land and other lands and what they needed and what I hoped to do for them-- “If you will help me,” I said. She turned to me, with that high, sweet look of hers, and then, as her eyes rested in mine and her hands too--then suddenly there blazed out between us a farther glory, instant, overwhelming--quite beyond any words of mine to tell. Celis was a blue-and-gold-and-rose person; Alma, black-and-white-and-red, a blazing beauty. Ellador was brown: hair dark and soft, like a seal coat; clear brown skin with a healthy red in it; brown eyes--all the way from topaz to black velvet they seemed to range--splendid girls, all of them. They had seen us first of all, far down in the lake below, and flashed the tidings across the land even before our first exploring flight. They had watched our landing, flitted through the forest with us, hidden in that tree and--I shrewdly suspect--giggled on purpose.
15265_the_quest_of_the_silver_fleece_a_novel	1911	The sun blazed; her bent and untrained back pained, and the soft little hands bled. But no complaint passed her lips; her hands never wavered, and her eyes met his steadily and gravely. She bade him good-night, cheerily, and then stole away to the wood, crouching beneath the great oak, and biting back the groans that trembled on her lips. Often, she fell supperless to sleep, with two great tears creeping down her tired cheeks. When school-time came there was not yet money enough, for cotton-picking was not far advanced. Yet Zora would take no money from Bles, and worked earnestly away. Meantime there occurred to the boy the momentous question of clothes. Had Zora thought of them? He feared not. She knew little of clothes and cared less. So one day in town he dropped into Caldwell's "Emporium" and glanced hesitantly at certain ready-made dresses. One caught his eye. It came from the great Easterly mills in New England and was red--a vivid red. The glowing warmth of this cloth of cotton caught the eye of Bles, and he bought the gown for a dollar and a half. He carried it to Zora in the wood, and unrolled it before her eyes that danced with glad tears.
145_middlemarch	1871	You acted as I should have expected you to act," said Dorothea, her face brightening and her head becoming a little more erect on its beautiful stem. "I did not believe that you would let any circumstance of my birth create a prejudice in you against me, though it was sure to do so in others," said Will, shaking his head backward in his old way, and looking with a grave appeal into her eyes. "If it were a new hardship it would be a new reason for me to cling to you," said Dorothea, fervidly. "Nothing could have changed me but--" her heart was swelling, and it was difficult to go on; she made a great effort over herself to say in a low tremulous voice, "but thinking that you were different--not so good as I had believed you to be." "You are sure to believe me better than I am in everything but one," said Will, giving way to his own feeling in the evidence of hers. "I mean, in my truth to you. When I thought you doubted of that, I didn't care about anything that was left. I thought it was all over with me, and there was nothing to try for--only things to endure."
24_o_pioneers	1913	Alexandra had set out from home early, leaving the house to Signa and Nelse Jensen, who were to be married next week. Signa had shyly asked to have the wedding put off until Emil came home. Alexandra was well satisfied with her brother. As they drove through the rolling French country toward the westering sun and the stalwart church, she was thinking of that time long ago when she and Emil drove back from the river valley to the still unconquered Divide. Yes, she told herself, it had been worth while; both Emil and the country had become what she had hoped. Out of her father's children there was one who was fit to cope with the world, who had not been tied to the plow, and who had a personality apart from the soil. And that, she reflected, was what she had worked for. She felt well satisfied with her life. When they reached the church, a score of teams were hitched in front of the basement doors that opened from the hillside upon the sanded terrace, where the boys wrestled and had jumping-matches. Amedee Chevalier, a proud father of one week, rushed out and embraced Emil. Amedee was an only son,--hence he was a very rich young man,--but he meant to have twenty children himself, like his uncle Xavier.
1260_jane_eyre_an_autobiography	1847	"Mrs. Fairfax!" I called out: for I now heard her descending the great stairs. "Did you hear that loud laugh? Who is it?" "Some of the servants, very likely," she answered: "perhaps Grace Poole." "Did you hear it?" I again inquired. "Yes, plainly: I often hear her: she sews in one of these rooms. Sometimes Leah is with her; they are frequently noisy together." The laugh was repeated in its low, syllabic tone, and terminated in an odd murmur. "Grace!" exclaimed Mrs. Fairfax. I really did not expect any Grace to answer; for the laugh was as tragic, as preternatural a laugh as any I ever heard; and, but that it was high noon, and that no circumstance of ghostliness accompanied the curious cachinnation; but that neither scene nor season favoured fear, I should have been superstitiously afraid. However, the event showed me I was a fool for entertaining a sense even of surprise. The door nearest me opened, and a servant came out,--a woman of between thirty and forty; a set, square-made figure, red-haired, and with a hard, plain face: any apparition less romantic or less ghostly could scarcely be conceived.
768_wuthering_heights	1847	Well, Linton,' murmured Catherine, when his corrugated brow relaxed, 'are you glad to see me? Can I do you any good?' 'Why didn't you come before?' he asked. 'You should have come, instead of writing. It tired me dreadfully writing those long letters. I'd far rather have talked to you. Now, I can neither bear to talk, nor anything else. I wonder where Zillah is! Will you' (looking at me) 'step into the kitchen and see?' I had received no thanks for my other service; and being unwilling to run to and fro at his behest, I replied--'Nobody is out there but Joseph.' 'I want to drink,' he exclaimed fretfully, turning away. 'Zillah is constantly gadding off to Gimmerton since papa went: it's miserable! And I'm obliged to come down here--they resolved never to hear me up-stairs.' 'Is your father attentive to you, Master Heathcliff?' I asked, perceiving Catherine to be checked in her friendly advances. 'Attentive? He makes them a little more attentive at least,' he cried. 'The wretches! Do you know, Miss Linton, that brute Hareton laughs at me! I hate him!
1342_pride_and_prejudice	1813	“You forget that I have made no answer. Let me do it without further loss of time. Accept my thanks for the compliment you are paying me. I am very sensible of the honour of your proposals, but it is impossible for me to do otherwise than to decline them.” “I am not now to learn,” replied Mr. Collins, with a formal wave of the hand, “that it is usual with young ladies to reject the addresses of the man whom they secretly mean to accept, when he first applies for their favour; and that sometimes the refusal is repeated a second, or even a third time. I am therefore by no means discouraged by what you have just said, and shall hope to lead you to the altar ere long.” “Upon my word, sir,” cried Elizabeth, “your hope is a rather extraordinary one after my declaration. I do assure you that I am not one of those young ladies (if such young ladies there are) who are so daring as to risk their happiness on the chance of being asked a second time. I am perfectly serious in my refusal. You could not make _me_ happy, and I am convinced that I am the last woman in the world who could make you so.
45_anne_of_green_gables	1908	Anne, for goodness sake smile a little. You know Elaine ‘lay as though she smiled.’ That’s better. Now push the flat off.” The flat was accordingly pushed off, scraping roughly over an old embedded stake in the process. Diana and Jane and Ruby only waited long enough to see it caught in the current and headed for the bridge before scampering up through the woods, across the road, and down to the lower headland where, as Lancelot and Guinevere and the King, they were to be in readiness to receive the lily maid. For a few minutes Anne, drifting slowly down, enjoyed the romance of her situation to the full. Then something happened not at all romantic. The flat began to leak. In a very few moments it was necessary for Elaine to scramble to her feet, pick up her cloth of gold coverlet and pall of blackest samite and gaze blankly at a big crack in the bottom of her barge through which the water was literally pouring. That sharp stake at the landing had torn off the strip of batting nailed on the flat. Anne did not know this, but it did not take her long to realize that she was in a dangerous plight. At this rate the flat would fill and sink long before it could drift to the lower headland.
1206_the_flying_u_ranch	1914	“I don't know how it strikes the rest, but it sounds pretty sickening to me. Don't overlook the fact that two of us happen to know all about you; and we know just where to send word, to dig up a lot more identification. So bluffing ain't going to help you out, a darned bit.” “Miguel, you can go with Andy,” Weary said with brisk decision. “Take Dunk down to the ranch till the sheriff gets here--if it's straight goods about Dunk sending for him. If he didn't, we can take Dunk in to-morrow, ourselves.” He turned and fixed a cold, commanding eye upon the slack-jawed herders. “Come along, you two, and get these sheep headed outa here.” “Say, we'll just lock him up in the blacksmith shop, and come on back,” Andy amended the order after his own free fashion. “He couldn't get out in a million years; not after I'm through staking him out to the anvil with a log-chain.” He smiled maliciously into Dunk's fear-yellowed countenance, and waved him a signal to ride ahead, which Dunk did without a word of protest while the Happy Family looked on dazedly.
541_the_age_of_innocence	1920	"Ellen--I must ask you one thing." "Yes." "I wanted to ask it after I saw him, but I couldn't put it in a letter. It was Riviere who helped you to get away--when you left your husband?" His heart was beating suffocatingly. Would she meet this question with the same composure? "Yes: I owe him a great debt," she answered, without the least tremor in her quiet voice. Her tone was so natural, so almost indifferent, that Archer's turmoil subsided. Once more she had managed, by her sheer simplicity, to make him feel stupidly conventional just when he thought he was flinging convention to the winds. "I think you're the most honest woman I ever met!" he exclaimed. "Oh, no--but probably one of the least fussy," she answered, a smile in her voice. "Call it what you like: you look at things as they are." "Ah--I've had to. I've had to look at the Gorgon." "Well--it hasn't blinded you! You've seen that she's just an old bogey like all the others." "She doesn't blind one; but she dries up one's tears."
11231_bartleby_the_scrivener_a_story_of_wallstreet	1853	Whether Bartleby's eyes improved or not, I could not say. To all appearance, I thought they did. But when I asked him if they did, he vouchsafed no answer. At all events, he would do no copying. At last, in reply to my urgings, he informed me that he had permanently given up copying. "What!" exclaimed I; "suppose your eyes should get entirely well--better than ever before--would you not copy then?" "I have given up copying," he answered, and slid aside. He remained as ever, a fixture in my chamber. Nay--if that were possible--he became still more of a fixture than before. What was to be done? He would do nothing in the office: why should he stay there? In plain fact, he had now become a millstone to me, not only useless as a necklace, but afflictive to bear. Yet I was sorry for him. I speak less than truth when I say that, on his own account, he occasioned me uneasiness. If he would but have named a single relative or friend, I would instantly have written, and urged their taking the poor fellow away to some convenient retreat. But he seemed alone, absolutely alone in the universe.
158_emma	1815	“With a great deal of pleasure, sir, at any time,” said Mr. Knightley, laughing, “and I agree with you entirely, that it will be a much better thing. Invite him to dinner, Emma, and help him to the best of the fish and the chicken, but leave him to chuse his own wife. Depend upon it, a man of six or seven-and-twenty can take care of himself.” CHAPTER II Mr. Weston was a native of Highbury, and born of a respectable family, which for the last two or three generations had been rising into gentility and property. He had received a good education, but, on succeeding early in life to a small independence, had become indisposed for any of the more homely pursuits in which his brothers were engaged, and had satisfied an active, cheerful mind and social temper by entering into the militia of his county, then embodied. Captain Weston was a general favourite; and when the chances of his military life had introduced him to Miss Churchill, of a great Yorkshire family, and Miss Churchill fell in love with him, nobody was surprized, except her brother and his wife, who had never seen him, and who were full of pride and importance, which the connexion would offend.
1155_the_secret_adversary	1922	An official denial from Moscow will be forthcoming if necessary.” There was a pause, and then the clear voice of the German broke the silence: “I am directed by--Mr. Brown, to place the summaries of the reports from the different unions before you. That of the miners is most satisfactory. We must hold back the railways. There may be trouble with the A.S.E.” For a long time there was a silence, broken only by the rustle of papers and an occasional word of explanation from the German. Then Tommy heard the light tap-tap of fingers, drumming on the table. “And--the date, my friend?” said Number One. “The 29th.” The Russian seemed to consider: “That is rather soon.” “I know. But it was settled by the principal Labour leaders, and we cannot seem to interfere too much. They must believe it to be entirely their own show.” The Russian laughed softly, as though amused. “Yes, yes,” he said. “That is true. They must have no inkling that we are using them for our own ends. They are honest men--and that is their value to us. It is curious--but you cannot make a revolution without honest men.
105_persuasion	1818	Her countenance, perhaps, might express some watchfulness; but the praise of the fine mind did not appear to excite a thought in her sister. The lady could not but yield to such joint entreaties, and promise to stay. In the course of the same morning, Anne and her father chancing to be alone together, he began to compliment her on her improved looks; he thought her "less thin in her person, in her cheeks; her skin, her complexion, greatly improved; clearer, fresher. Had she been using any thing in particular?" "No, nothing." "Merely Gowland," he supposed. "No, nothing at all." "Ha! he was surprised at that;" and added, "certainly you cannot do better than to continue as you are; you cannot be better than well; or I should recommend Gowland, the constant use of Gowland, during the spring months. Mrs Clay has been using it at my recommendation, and you see what it has done for her. You see how it has carried away her freckles." If Elizabeth could but have heard this! Such personal praise might have struck her, especially as it did not appear to Anne that the freckles were at all lessened. But everything must take its chance.
2891_howards_end	1910	It was morbid, and, to her alarm, Margaret fancied that she could trace the growth of morbidity back in Helen's life for nearly four years. The flight from Oniton; the unbalanced patronage of the Basts; the explosion of grief up on the Downs--all connected with Paul, an insignificant boy whose lips had kissed hers for a fraction of time. Margaret and Mrs. Wilcox had feared that they might kiss again. Foolishly: the real danger was reaction. Reaction against the Wilcoxes had eaten into her life until she was scarcely sane. At twenty-five she had an idee fixe. What hope was there for her as an old woman? The more Margaret thought about it the more alarmed she became. For many months she had put the subject away, but it was too big to be slighted now. There was almost a taint of madness. Were all Helen's actions to be governed by a tiny mishap, such as may happen to any young man or woman? Can human nature be constructed on lines so insignificant? The blundering little encounter at Howards End was vital. It propagated itself where graver intercourse lay barren; it was stronger than sisterly intimacy, stronger than reason or books. In one of her moods Helen had confessed that she still "enjoyed" it in a certain sense.
209_the_turn_of_the_screw	1898	She offered her mind to my disclosures as, had I wished to mix a witch’s broth and proposed it with assurance, she would have held out a large clean saucepan. This had become thoroughly her attitude by the time that, in my recital of the events of the night, I reached the point of what Miles had said to me when, after seeing him, at such a monstrous hour, almost on the very spot where he happened now to be, I had gone down to bring him in; choosing then, at the window, with a concentrated need of not alarming the house, rather that method than a signal more resonant. I had left her meanwhile in little doubt of my small hope of representing with success even to her actual sympathy my sense of the real splendor of the little inspiration with which, after I had got him into the house, the boy met my final articulate challenge. As soon as I appeared in the moonlight on the terrace, he had come to me as straight as possible; on which I had taken his hand without a word and led him, through the dark spaces, up the staircase where Quint had so hungrily hovered for him, along the lobby where I had listened and trembled, and so to his forsaken room.
11_alices_adventures_in_wonderland	1865	At this moment the door of the house opened, and a large plate came skimming out, straight at the Footman’s head: it just grazed his nose, and broke to pieces against one of the trees behind him. ‘--or next day, maybe,’ the Footman continued in the same tone, exactly as if nothing had happened. ‘How am I to get in?’ asked Alice again, in a louder tone. ‘ARE you to get in at all?’ said the Footman. ‘That’s the first question, you know.’ It was, no doubt: only Alice did not like to be told so. ‘It’s really dreadful,’ she muttered to herself, ‘the way all the creatures argue. It’s enough to drive one crazy!’ The Footman seemed to think this a good opportunity for repeating his remark, with variations. ‘I shall sit here,’ he said, ‘on and off, for days and days.’ ‘But what am I to do?’ said Alice. ‘Anything you like,’ said the Footman, and began whistling. ‘Oh, there’s no use in talking to him,’ said Alice desperately: ‘he’s perfectly idiotic!’ And she opened the door and went in.
60_the_scarlet_pimpernel	1905	. enough, I think, to thwart their projected COUP for the moment, it would only be for the moment, and still leaves me in ignorance of the identity of the Scarlet Pimpernel. “La! my friend,” she said, with the same assumed flippancy of manner, “then you are where you were before, aren't you? and you can let me enjoy the last strophe of the ARIA. Faith!” she added, ostentatiously smothering an imaginary yawn, “had you not spoken about my brother . . .” “I am coming to him now, citoyenne. Among the papers there was a letter to Sir Andrew Ffoulkes, written by your brother, St. Just.” “Well? And?” “That letter shows him to be not only in sympathy with the enemies of France, but actually a helper, if not a member, of the League of the Scarlet Pimpernel.” The blow had been struck at last. All along, Marguerite had been expecting it; she would not show fear, she was determined to seem unconcerned, flippant even. She wished, when the shock came, to be prepared for it, to have all her wits about her--those wits which had been nicknamed the keenest in Europe. Even now she did not flinch.
766_david_copperfield	1849	I said to Annie, when Doctor Strong paid a very flattering visit to myself, and made her the subject of a declaration and an offer, I said, “My dear, there is no doubt whatever, in my opinion, with reference to a suitable provision for you, that Doctor Strong will do more than he binds himself to do.”’ Here the bell rang, and we heard the sound of the visitors’ feet as they went out. ‘It’s all over, no doubt,’ said the Old Soldier, after listening; ‘the dear creature has signed, sealed, and delivered, and his mind’s at rest. Well it may be! What a mind! Annie, my love, I am going to the Study with my paper, for I am a poor creature without news. Miss Trotwood, David, pray come and see the Doctor.’ I was conscious of Mr. Dick’s standing in the shadow of the room, shutting up his knife, when we accompanied her to the Study; and of my aunt’s rubbing her nose violently, by the way, as a mild vent for her intolerance of our military friend; but who got first into the Study, or how Mrs. Markleham settled herself in a moment in her easy-chair, or how my aunt
171_charlotte_temple	1791	“But sure you cannot refuse to protect my innocent infant: it partakes not of its mother’s guilt. Oh my father, oh beloved mother, now do I feel the anguish I inflicted on your hearts recoiling with double force upon my own. “If my child should be a girl (which heaven forbid) tell her the unhappy fate of her mother, and teach her to avoid my errors; if a boy, teach him to lament my miseries, but tell him not who inflicted them, lest in wishing to revenge his mother’s injuries, he should wound the peace of his father. “And now, dear friends of my soul, kind guardians of my infancy, farewell. I feel I never more must hope to see you; the anguish of my heart strikes at the strings of life, and in a short time I shall be at rest. Oh could I but receive your blessing and forgiveness before I died, it would smooth my passage to the peaceful grave, and be a blessed foretaste of a happy eternity. I beseech you, curse me not, my adored parents, but let a tear of pity and pardon fall to the memory of your lost “CHARLOTTE.” CHAPTER XXIII. A MAN MAY SMILE, AND SMILE, AND BE A VILLAIN.
367_country_of_the_pointed_firs	1896	TODD HAD taken the onion out of her basket and laid it down upon the kitchen table. “There’s Johnny Bowden come with us, you know,” she reminded her mother. “He’ll be hungry enough to eat his size.” “I’ve got new doughnuts, dear,” said the little old lady. “You don’t often catch William ‘n’ me out o’ provisions. I expect you might have chose a somewhat larger fish, but I’ll try an’ make it do. I shall have to have a few extra potatoes, but there’s a field full out there, an’ the hoe’s leanin’ against the well-house, in ‘mongst the climbin’-beans.” She smiled and gave her daughter a commanding nod. “Land sakes alive! Le’s blow the horn for William,” insisted Mrs. Todd, with some excitement. “He needn’t break his spirit so far’s to come in. He’ll know you need him for something particular, an’ then we can call to him as he comes up the path. I won’t put him to no pain.” Mrs. Blackett’s old face, for the first time, wore a look of trouble, and I found it necessary to counteract the teasing spirit of Almira.
5348_ragged_dick_or_street_life_in_new_york_with_the_bootblacks	1868	CHAPTER II JOHNNY NOLAN After Dick had finished polishing Mr. Greyson's boots he was fortunate enough to secure three other customers, two of them reporters in the Tribune establishment, which occupies the corner of Spruce Street and Printing House Square. When Dick had got through with his last customer the City Hall clock indicated eight o'clock. He had been up an hour, and hard at work, and naturally began to think of breakfast. He went up to the head of Spruce Street, and turned into Nassau. Two blocks further, and he reached Ann Street. On this street was a small, cheap restaurant, where for five cents Dick could get a cup of coffee, and for ten cents more, a plate of beefsteak with a plate of bread thrown in. These Dick ordered, and sat down at a table. It was a small apartment with a few plain tables unprovided with cloths, for the class of customers who patronized it were not very particular. Our hero's breakfast was soon before him. Neither the coffee nor the steak were as good as can be bought at Delmonico's; but then it is very doubtful whether, in the present state of his wardrobe, Dick would have been received at that aristocratic restaurant, even if his means had admitted of paying the high prices there charged.
208_daisy_miller_a_study	1879	He was dressed in knickerbockers, with red stockings, which displayed his poor little spindle-shanks; he also wore a brilliant red cravat. He carried in his hand a long alpenstock, the sharp point of which he thrust into everything that he approached--the flowerbeds, the garden benches, the trains of the ladies’ dresses. In front of Winterbourne he paused, looking at him with a pair of bright, penetrating little eyes. “Will you give me a lump of sugar?” he asked in a sharp, hard little voice--a voice immature and yet, somehow, not young. Winterbourne glanced at the small table near him, on which his coffee service rested, and saw that several morsels of sugar remained. “Yes, you may take one,” he answered; “but I don’t think sugar is good for little boys.” This little boy stepped forward and carefully selected three of the coveted fragments, two of which he buried in the pocket of his knickerbockers, depositing the other as promptly in another place. He poked his alpenstock, lance-fashion, into Winterbourne’s bench and tried to crack the lump of sugar with his teeth. “Oh, blazes; it’s har-r-d!” he exclaimed, pronouncing the adjective in a peculiar manner.
974_the_secret_agent_a_simple_tale	1907	I think that the man who had most to do with it will turn out to be Michaelis.” “You do?” “Yes, sir; because I can answer for all the others.” “What about that other man supposed to have escaped from the park?” “I should think he’s far away by this time,” opined the Chief Inspector. The Assistant Commissioner looked hard at him, and rose suddenly, as though having made up his mind to some course of action. As a matter of fact, he had that very moment succumbed to a fascinating temptation. The Chief Inspector heard himself dismissed with instructions to meet his superior early next morning for further consultation upon the case. He listened with an impenetrable face, and walked out of the room with measured steps. Whatever might have been the plans of the Assistant Commissioner they had nothing to do with that desk work, which was the bane of his existence because of its confined nature and apparent lack of reality. It could not have had, or else the general air of alacrity that came upon the Assistant Commissioner would have been inexplicable. As soon as he was left alone he looked for his hat impulsively, and put it on his head. Having done that, he sat down again to reconsider the whole matter.
1327_elizabeth_and_her_german_garden	1898	In the eye of the law we are all sinners, and every man is held to be guilty until he has proved that he is innocent. Minora has seen so much of the babies that, after vainly trying to get out of their way for several days, she thought it better to resign herself, and make the best of it by regarding them as copy, and using them to fill a chapter in her book. So she took to dogging their footsteps wherever they went, attended their uprisings and their lyings down, engaged them, if she could, in intelligent conversation, went with them into the garden to study their ways when they were sleighing, drawn by a big dog, and generally made their lives a burden to them. This went on for three days, and then she settled down to write the result with the Man of Wrath’s typewriter, borrowed whenever her notes for any chapter have reached the state of ripeness necessary for the process she describes as “throwing into form.” She writes everything with a typewriter, even her private letters. “Don’t forget to put in something about a mother’s knee,” said Irais; “you can’t write effectively about children without that.” “Oh, of course I shall mention that,” replied Minora.
